


		Procedures to set up the RIPE NCC
		---------------------------------

			R. Blokzijl

		       June 10, 1991

		    (annex to ripe-w07)


   1. Status
   ---------

      The need for a RIPE Network Coordination Center is described in
      document ripe-w06. The activity plan for the NCC is defined in
      ripe-w07. 

      At the 8th RIPE meeting it was decided to request RARE to act as the
      organisation that provides the legal environment for the RIPE NCC. This
      has been accepted by the RARE CoA meeting of May 16-17. Also it was
      reconfirmed that RARE has no resources to fund the NCC centrally.

      This document describes the procedures that are necessary for setting
      up the NCC. The three main elements are: 

	  - finance

	  - selection of personel

	  - selection of site

   
   2. Finance.
   -----------

      A first estimate of the budget follows from the activity plan, section
      5, where the technical requirements of the NCC are outlined. The
      figures below should be regarded as a first approximation that clearly
      needs further fine tuning. On the other hand it does give the finacial
      goals to be reached before the NCC goes into operation.

      Staff		180.000 ECU

      Equipment          30.000 ECU

      Office space       15.000 ECU
      plus overheads

      Travel budget      15.000 ECU
			-------
      Total             240.000 ECU  per annum

      The goal is to secure funding for an initial period of three years;
      so arrangements for 720.000 ECU must be found.

      Proposed is, to invite organisations active within and outside RIPE
      to participate in funding arrangements.

   
   3. Staff
   --------

      The NCC staff wil be invited by open sollicitation. A selection board
      consisting of representatives from RIPE and the RARE EC will appoint
      the NCC staff. 

      - Open sollicitation: proposed is that the announcements of NCC
        positions will be made on the RIPE and RARE CoA distribution lists.

      - In the selection board, RIPE must have a strong voice, to ensure
	an excellent working relationship between RIPE and the NCC.

      - The first appointment will be the NCC manager. This manager will
        subsequently be involved in the selection of NCC staff.

      - The appointed NCC manager will be involved in the final selection of
        the site that houses the NCC.


   4. Site
   -------

      The selection of the NCC site will be done by open sollicitation. A
      selection board consisting of representatives of RIPE, the RARE REC
      and the NCC manager will do the final selection.

      - A detailed description of the site requirements will be produced.

      - An invitation to propose sites will be published on the RIPE and RARE
        CoA distribution lists.

      - The above defined selection board will select the NCC site.
