





~









March 1992


INTERNET MONTHLY REPORTS
------------------------

The purpose of these reports is to communicate to the Internet Research
Group the accomplishments, milestones reached, or problems discovered by
the participating organizations.

     This report is for Internet information purposes only, and is not
     to be quoted in other publications without permission from the
     submitter.

Each organization is expected to submit a 1/2 page report on the first
business day of the month describing the previous month's activities.

These reports should be submitted via network mail to:

     Ann Westine Cooper (IMR@ISI.EDU)
     NSF Regional reports - Corinne Carroll (ccarroll@NNSC.NSF.NET)
     Directory Services reports - Tom Tignor (TPT2@ISI.EDU)

Requests to be added or deleted from the Internet Monthly report list
should be sent to "IMR@isi.edu".

Back issues of the Internet Monthly Report can be copied via FTP:

     FTP>  nis.nsf.net
     Login: anonymous guest
     ftp> cd imr
     ls
     get IMRYY-MM.TXT

For example, JUNE 1991 is in the file IMR91-06.TXT.






Cooper                                                          [Page 1]

Internet Monthly Report                                       March 1992


TABLE OF CONTENTS

  INTERNET ACTIVITIES BOARD

     IAB MESSAGE  . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  3
     INTERNET RESEARCH REPORTS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  6
        AUTONOMOUS NETWORKS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  6
        END-TO-END SERVICES  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  6
        RESOURCE DISCOVERY AND DIRECTORY SERVICE .  . .. . . . page  6
     INTERNET ENGINEERING REPORTS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  7

  Internet Projects

     BARRNET . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 11
     BOLT BERANEK AND NEWMAN, INC.,  . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 11
     CERFNET . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 12
     CICNET. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 12
     CIX (COMMERCIAL INTERNET EXCHANGE). . . . . . . . . . . . page 13
     CONCERT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 14
     FARNET (FEDERATION OF AMERICAN RESEARCH NETWORKS) . . . . page 15
     ISI . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 16
     JVNCNET . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 17
     LOS NETTOS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 20
     MIDNET  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 20
     MITRE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 20
     NEARNET (NEW ENGLAND ACADEMIC AND RESEARCH NETWORK) . . . page 21
     NNSC, UCAR/BOLT BERANEK and NEWMAN, INC., . . . . . . . . page 23
     NORTHWESTNET. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 24
     NSFNET/ANSNET BACKBONE ENGINEERING. . . . . . . . . . . . page 24
     NSFNET/INFORMATION SERVICES . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 32
     PREPnet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 35
     PITTSBURGH SUPERCOMPUTER CENTER . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 35
     SAIC. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 36
     SESQUINET . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 37
     UCL . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 38
     UDEL. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 39

  DIRECTORY SERVICES ACTIVITIES

     IETF OSIDS WORKING GROUPS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 41
     FOX - FIELD OPERATIONAL X.500 PROJECT . . . . . . . . . . page 41
        ISI. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 42
        SRI. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 42
        OSI IMPLEMENTOR'S WORKSHOP (OIW) . . . . . . . . . . . page 42
     PSI DARPA/NNT X.500 PROJECT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 43
     PSI WHITE PAGES PILOT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 44

  CALENDAR OF EVENTS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 45



Cooper                                                          [Page 2]

Internet Monthly Report                                       March 1992



IAB MESSAGE

     NEW IRTF CHAIRPERSON

     The IAB has selected Jon Postel to chair the Internet Research Task
     Force, replacing Dave Clark who was forced to resign due to time
     conflicts.

     Jon has been active member of the Internet research community since
     its beginnings in 1974, and before that played a major role in
     defining the ARPANET protocols, starting in 1969.  As "Protocol
     Czar", he defined the final specifications of protocols such as
     TCP, IP, and SMTP.  As RFC Editor, he has maintained the uniformly
     high editorial and technical quality of the RFC series.

     IAB MEETINGS

     The IAB met for 1.5 days on March 16-17, 1992 at the San Diego IETF
     Meeting.  Minutes of this meeting will be published when they
     become available.

     The minutes of the IAB meetings of November 1991 and January 1992
     are now available for anonymous FTP from host venera.isi.edu with
     pathnames:

         pub/IABmins.nov91.txt
         pub/IABmins.jan92.txt

     STANDARDS ADVANCES

     The following list shows the protocol standards actions approved
     by the IAB since February 1, 1991.

       NetFAX -- A File Format for the Exchange of Images
         Proposed Standard:     17 March 1992
             RFC 1314 - "A File Format for the Exchange of Images
                         in the Internet"

      Frame Relay MIB
         Proposed Standard:     17 March 1992
             RFC-1315 - "Management Information Base for
                         Frame Relay DTEs"

      TCP Extensions for High Performance
         Proposed Standard:     17 March 1992
             RFC in preparation.




Cooper                                                          [Page 3]

Internet Monthly Report                                       March 1992


      Character MIBs
         Proposed Standard:     17 March 1992
             RFCs in preparation.

      IP over SMDS
         Proposed Standard:   4 February 1991
         Draft Standard:        17 March 1992
             RFC-1209 - "Transmission of IP Datagrams over the
                         SMDS Service"

      IP TOS -- IP Type of Service
         Proposed Standard:  27 February 1992
             RFC in preparation.

      SMDS Interface MIB
         Proposed Standard:  24 February 1992
             RFC in preparation.

      IP Forwarding Table MIB
         Proposed Standard:  24 February 1992
             RFC in preparation.

         Note: The IESG recommended that the Internet Draft "IP
         Forwarding Table MIB" <draft-ietf-rreq-forwarding-04>
         be published as a Proposed Standard.  This document
         depends on the Internet Draft "Type of Service in the
         Internet Protocol Suite" <draft-almquist-tos-02> and
         should be published after that document.  This is the
         product of the Router Requirements Working Group of
         the IETF.

         During IESG and IAB consideration of the -04 version
         of this specification, the working group developed a
         -05 version and published it as an Internet Draft.
         Since the differences are very minor, and indeed
         probably have no effect on the resulting service, the
         IAB has adopted the -05 version and will publish it as
         a Proposed Standard.

         We want to encourage (!) working groups to always submit
         finished specifications, and discourage frequent
         post-submission changes.  However, forcing a recycling of
         this particular specification, and thereby adding a month
         of delay, seemed entirely unnecessary.







Cooper                                                          [Page 4]

Internet Monthly Report                                       March 1992


      MIB-I -- Management
         Information Base
         Standard:              26 April 1990
         Historic:                 March 1992

         In August 1991, MIB-II (RFC-1213) became a Standard for the
         Internet.  MIB-II was intended to replace the earlier MIB-I,
         and in fact MIB-II is a fully backwards-compatible extension
         to MIB-I. Therefore, MIB-I has been demoted from Standard to
         Historic (an honorable end for a notable IETF effort).  This
         new state for MIB-I is reflected in the current "IAB Official
         Protocols Standards" RFC-1280 (March 1992).

     STANDARDS ACTIONS PENDING ON APRIL 1, 1992

      'BGP NEXT-HOP-SNPA Attribute' to Proposed Standard.

         Held up for discussion with IESG.  Concern was general
         architectural issues raised by this specification.

      'Mapping between X.400(1988) / ISO 10021 and RFC 822'
         to Proposed Standard.

         Approved by the IAB, pending resolution of an organizational
         issue with the IESG.

      'X.400 1988 to 1984 downgrading' to Proposed Standard.

         The IAB believes it is entirely appropriate to progress an
         Internet standard for the 1988->1984 X.400 fallback, even
         though the spec is the subject of CCITT and ISO standards.

         Approved by the IAB, pending resolution of an organizational
         issue with the IESG.

      'SNMP Security' to Proposed Standard

         Held up for discussion with IESG area and WG chair. Revision
         in preparation.

      'Point to Point Protocol (PPP)' to Proposed Standard.

         Ballot in progress.

     Bob Braden (Braden@ISI.EDU)






Cooper                                                          [Page 5]

Internet Monthly Report                                       March 1992


INTERNET RESEARCH REPORTS
-------------------------

     AUTONOMOUS NETWORKS
     -------------------

        No progress to report this month.

        Deborah Estrin (Estrin@USC.EDU)

     END-TO-END SERVICES
     -------------------

        No progress to report this month.

        Bob Braden (Braden@ISI.EDU)

     RESOURCE DISCOVERY AND DIRECTORY SERVICE
     ----------------------------------------

        The Internet Research Task Force on Resource Discovery and
        Directory Service met in March, and discussed the problem of how
        to allow resource discovery systems to scale by several orders
        of magnitude.  We began by exploring the current paradigms for
        resource discovery, and by proposing some experiments for the
        group.  We are now considering a problem we call "Perspective
        Discovery".  The idea is that as an increasing number of
        information services, indices, etc., are interconnected on the
        Internet, we see a burgeoning "Web" of information.  For
        example, there are now gateways/access methods between Archie,
        X.500, WAIS, Prospero, WWW, etc.  For this web to be useful,
        there need to be ways to locate useful entry points.  Such entry
        points are being built and exported by individuals or groups,
        with an impetus for their entry points to become popular.  We
        are currently exploring an architecture that would allow entry
        points to be advertised, interrelated, and discovered.  This
        approach is different from the directory-of-directories
        approach, since it does not imply a cascading hierarchy (where
        eventually there are directories of directories of directories,
        etc.), and scalability is achieved through specialization rather
        than global nesting.

        Mike Schwartz (schwartz@cs.colorado.edu)








Cooper                                                          [Page 6]

Internet Monthly Report                                       March 1992


INTERNET ENGINEERING REPORTS
----------------------------

     1. The IETF met in San Diego March 16-20, 1992 and was hosted by
        San Diego Supercomputer Center. Many thanks are due to Paul Love
        and all the folks at SDSC for the amazing amount of work that
        went into hosting this meeting, and to the staff at the Hyatt
        Islandia. The facilities were outstanding and the location was
        beautiful. Megan Davies again demonstrated her superior
        abilities at scheduling and coordination as we managed to avoid
        rain until Friday afternoon. 64 working groups, BOFs, and
        directorates met during the week.

        In addition to being a productive meeting, the San Diego IETF
        meeting enjoyed a number of "firsts." This was the first meeting
        where attendence broke the 400 person mark. It was also the
        first to break the 500 attendee mark! There were over 525
        attendess in San Diego.

        Another first for the IETF meeting was the audio broadcast of
        the technical presentations and plenary meetings, thanks to the
        efforts of Steve Casner, Steve Deering, and a host of others.
        There were a number of receiving sites in the United States,
        the UK, Sweden, and Australia

     2. The next IETF meeting, co-hosted by MIT and NEARNet, will be
        held in Cambridge during the month of July, 1992. Details will
        be provided in future Internet Monthly reports and announced to
        the IETF mailing list.

     3. The IESG received a revised version of the "MIME (Multipurpose
        Internet Mail Extensions)" Internet draft
        <draft-ietf-822ext-messagebodies-05.txt> This document reflects
        both specific editorial changes requested by the IESG and minor
        corrections.  A second last call was sent.

     4. The IESG made the following recommendations to the IAB during
        the month of March, 1992:

        a. SNMP Administrative Model <draft-ietf-snmpsec-admin-02>
           be published as a Proposed Standard.

        b. SNMP Security Protocols <draft-ietf-snmpsec-protocols-02>
           be published as a Proposed Standard.

        c. Definitions of Managed Objects for Administration of
           SNMP Parties <draft-ietf-snmpsec-mib-02> be published as
           a Proposed Standard.



Cooper                                                          [Page 7]

Internet Monthly Report                                       March 1992


        d. The Point-to-Point Protocol for the Transmission of
           Multi-Protocol Datagrams Over Point-to-Point Links"
           <draft-ietf-pppext-lcp-03> be published as a
           Proposed Standard.

        e. The PPP Internet Protocol Control Protocol (IPCP)
           <draft-ietf-pppext-ipcp-03> be published as a Proposed
           Standard.

     5.  The following three Working Groups were created during the
         month of March:

             Audio/Video Transport (avt)
             User Documents Revisions (userdoc2)
             Chassis MIB (chassis)

     6. Twenty eight Internet Draft Actions were taken between March 1
        and 31, 1992:

      (Revised draft (o), New Draft (+) )

        WG             I-D Title  <Filename>
      ------       -----------------------------------------------------
      (telnet)   o Telnet Authentication Option
                        <draft-ietf-telnet-authentication-03.txt>
      (telnet)   o Telnet Authentication Option
                        <draft-ietf-telnet-authentication-03.txt>
      (appext)   o Definitions of Managed Objects for the Point-to-Point
                   Protocol
                        <draft-ietf-pppext-pppmib-02.txt>
      (appleip)  o The Transmission of Internet Packets Over AppleTalk
                   Networks
                        <draft-ietf-appleip-MacIP-01.txt>
      (822ext)   o MIME (Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions):
                   Mechanisms for Specifying and Describing the Format
                   of Internet Message Bodies
                        <draft-ietf-822ext-messagebodies-05.txt, .ps>
      (dhc)      o Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol
                        <draft-ietf-dhc-protocol-02.txt, .ps>
      (smtpext)  o SMTP Extensions for Transport of Enhanced Text-Based
                   Messages
                        <draft-ietf-smtpext-8bittransport-03.txt>
      (iplpdn)   o Multiprotocol Interconnect on X.25 and ISDN in the
                   Packet Mode
                        <draft-ietf-iplpdn-x25_isdn-02.txt>
      (disi)     o An Executive Introduction to Directory Services
                   Using the X.500 Protocol
                        <draft-ietf-disi-execdir-02.txt>



Cooper                                                          [Page 8]

Internet Monthly Report                                       March 1992


      (appleip)  o SNMP over AppleTalk
                        <draft-ietf-appleip-snmp-appletalk-01.txt>
      (x400ops)  + Routing coordination for X.400 MHS services
                   within a multi protocol / multi network environment
                        <draft-ietf-x400ops-mhs-service-00.txt>
      (x400ops)  + Mapping between X.400(1984/1988) and Mail-11
                   (DECnet mail)
                        <draft-ietf-x400ops-mapmail-00.txt>
      (telnet)   o Telnet Environment Option
                        <draft-ietf-telnet-environment-02.txt>
      (telnet)   + Telnet Remote Flow Control Option
                        <draft-ietf-telnet-remflow-cntrl-00.txt>
      (disi)     + Technical Overview of Directory Services Using the
                   X.500 Protocol
                        <draft-ietf-disi-techview-00.txt>
      (telnet)   + Telnet Authentication: Kerberos Version 4
                        <draft-ietf-telnet-authker-v4-00.txt>
      (telnet)   + Telnet Authentication: Kerberos Version 5
                        <draft-ietf-telnet-authker-v5-00.txt>
      (dns)      + DNS MIB Extensions
                        <draft-ietf-dns-mibext-00.txt, .ps>
      (osids)    + The Simple OSI Stack
                        <draft-ietf-osids-simple-stack-00.txt, .ps>
      (cip)      + Notes for Application Implementors on ST-II
                   Socket API
                        <draft-ietf-cip-apisocket-00.txt>
      (x400ops)  + Operational Requirements for X.400 Management Domains
                        <draft-ietf-x400ops-mgtdomains-00.txt>
      (snmp)     + Proxy between SNMP Transport Mappings
                        <draft-ietf-snmp-transmap-00.txt>
      (iplpdn)   + Discovery and Routing over the SMDS Service
                        <draft-ietf-iplpdn-shortcutrouting-00.txt>
      (opstat)   + A Model for Common Operational Statistics
                        <draft-ietf-opstat-model-00.txt>
      (none)     + HYBRID NETBIOS END-NODES
                        <draft-noon-hybrid-netbios-00.txt>
      (ethermib) + Implementation Notes and Experience for The Internet
                   Ethernet MIB
                        <draft-ietf-ethermib-implexp-00.txt>
      (ethermib) + Definitions of Managed Objects for the Ethernet-like
                   Interface Types
                        <draft-ietf-ethermib-objects-00.txt>
      (none)     + IDRP for IP
                        <draft-hares-idrp-00.txt>







Cooper                                                          [Page 9]

Internet Monthly Report                                       March 1992


     7. Two RFC's based on IETF WG activity were produced during the
        month of March, 1992.


       RFC  Status WG        Title
     ------- -- --------   -----------------------------------------

     RFC1308  I (disi)       Executive Introduction to Directory
                             Services Using the X.500 Protocol

     RFC1309  I (disi)       Technical Overview of Directory Services


     8. Also produced during the month of March were three other
        Informational RFCs: RFC1280 which documents the current list
        of IAB Official Protocol Standards, RFC1310 which describes
        the Internet Standards Process, and RFC1311 which introduces
        the STD Notes series.

       RFC   Status           Title
     ------- ------    ---------------------------------------------

     RFC1280  I            IAB OFFICIAL PROTOCOL STANDARDS
     RFC1310  I            The Internet Standards Process
     RFC1311  I            Introduction to the STD Notes

     Phill Gross (pgross@NRI.RESTON.VA.US)
























Cooper                                                         [Page 10]

Internet Monthly Report                                       March 1992


INTERNET PROJECTS
-----------------

BARRNET
-------

     Three new 56kbps sites, one T1 site, and one dial-in site were
     connected in March. Implementation of routing to the CIX remains
     delayed pending resolution of routing issues.  Circuits were
     ordered to complete a T1 loop between BARRNet's hub sites at
     Stanford, Davis, Sacramento, and Menlo Park, providing a fully
     redundant T1 path to the NSS for sites in the Sacramento Davis
     area. A similar loop is planned for the Stanford/NASA Ames/Santa
     Clara/Cupertino hub sites.

     Paul Baer <baer@jessica.stanford.edu>

BOLT BERANEK AND NEWMAN INC.
----------------------------

     Inter-Domain Policy Routing

     In March 1992, the IDPR working group submitted IDPR to the IESG
     for Proposed Standard status consideration.  BBN continued to
     assemble a group of participants for IDPR experiments within the
     Internet and met with some of the potential participants.

     In the previous month, BBN fulfilled its commitment to producing
     the IDPR configuration database software.  With the subsequent
     maternity leave of BBN's IDPR software engineer, BBN is not
     currently working on the gated version of IDPR.  SAIC is leading
     the IDPR gated development effort.  Please refer to their
     submission for a discussion of the status of that software.

     ST Conferencing

     During March, a total of 30 video conferences and demonstrations
     were conducted.  Six of the conferences involved three sites, one
     (by special arrangement) involved four sites, and the remaining
     twenty-three included only two sites.  A large number of these
     conferences were associated with the Reforger FV demonstration.
     The DART project also used conferencing services.  There were no
     SIMNET exercises in March.

     During March, BBN developed and began field testing for new T/20
     software to ensure that the gateways do not drop priority packets
     such as ST conferencing packets when the traffic load exceeds the
     fatpipe capacity.  This had caused a problem with UK/US video



Cooper                                                         [Page 11]

Internet Monthly Report                                       March 1992


     conferencing.  Preliminary field testing has been successful, and
     will continue in April.

     Ft. Leavenworth joined the TWB as a new conferencing site, and
     participated in the FV conferences and simulation (non-SIMNET)
     exercises.  Frankfurt also joined the TWB temporarily for the FV
     demo, and will return as a regular conferencing site when a
     permanent data connection to Frankfurt becomes available.

     Jil Westcott (westcott@bbn.com)

CERFNET
-------

     During April CERFnet will be moving their headquarters from the San
     Diego Supercomputer Center (SDSC) to General Atomics headquarters
     just down the street. In the new location CERFnet will have new
     Network Operations Center (NOC) facilities and extensive additional
     space for its expanding staff.  Our 800 number (800-876-CERF) will
     remain the same, but our direct line will change to (619) 455-3000.
     Our mailing address will remain the same - CERFnet, P.O. Box 85608,
     San Diego, CA.  92186-9784.

     CERFnet staff attended the Net '92 conference in Washington D.C.
     and introduced the prototype of a board game - "The LAN That Time
     Forgot." The game provides a fun way to learn about the Internet as
     you travel through different e-mail, FTP, and Telnet paths. People
     were enthusiastic about the game and had good suggestions for
     additional improvements. The game will be completed and released by
     early Fall.

     Susan Calcari <calcaris@cerf.net>

CICNET
-------

     CICNet activities for February and March, 1992

     On February 4, the winter meeting of the CICNet Network Information
     Resources Committee was held in Chicago.  The meeting was attended
     by over 30 participants from almost all CICNet sites.  Featured
     presentation included a discussion of a full text database service
     by John Price-Wilkin of the University of Michigan, activities at
     the Coalition for Networked Information by Craig Summerhill of CNI,
     and a presentation on the Gopher information service by Mark
     McCahill of the University of Minnesota.





Cooper                                                         [Page 12]

Internet Monthly Report                                       March 1992


     Also during February, CICNet President Mike Staman represented
     CICNet at meetings of FARNET and the Midamerica Coalition for High
     Performance Computing.  Mike was also elected to the Board of
     Directors of FARNET.

     At the end of the month CICNet staff participated in series of
     meetings in Illinois which were designed to inform education,
     business and industry of the development of net ILLINOIS.  The
     meetings were attended by over 200 individuals.

     During February, 9.6 billion packets were switched by all routers
     on the network and 3.76 billion packets were accepted into the
     network.  This represents a 20% increase over January in the number
     of packets accepted into the network.

     On March 5th and 6th, the CICNet Technical Board met at the
     Ameritech headquarters in Rolling Meadows, IL.  Topics for this
     meeting included planning for an SMDS trial in the Chicago area and
     a discussion of dialup services. New members joining CICNet in
     February and March include Share, Inc, the Illinois Institute of
     Technology - Kent College of Law, and the Motorola Corp.

     During March a project to upgrade all of CICNet's Cisco backbone
     routers to CSC/3 processors was completed. CICNet has recently
     established an active WAIS server which provides an easy way to
     search a list of Bitnet node sites, UUCP sites, Internet mailing
     lists, and email addresses for individuals who participate in
     USEnet news groups.

     John Hankins <hankins@cic.net>

CIX (COMMERCIAL INTERNET EXCHANGE)
----------------------------------

     The following report outlines CIX-WEST usage for the month of
     March, 1992.

     CIX       In                           Out
     Member     Octets     Packets  Errors    Octets    Packets  Errors
     -------- ----------------------------  ---------------------------
     AlterNet 25760889533  87660278  13142  10567870069  84629940    0
     CERFnet   2425748767  15400290    301   3074272147  13901894    0
     PSINet   12311405573  85865899   1264  26795232905 105650436   21

     Starting: Feb 29 1992 at 23:51
     Ending: Mar 31 1992 at 23:20
     SNMP Polling Intervals: 2909
     SNMP Polling Frequency: 15 minutes



Cooper                                                         [Page 13]

Internet Monthly Report                                       March 1992


     In - traffic entering the CIX from the CIX member network
     Out - traffic exiting the CIX into the CIX member network

     At the present time, approximately 560 networks within AlterNet,
     CERFNet, and PSINet are using the CIX-WEST.

     A complete list of networks accessible via the CIX is available via
     anonymous FTP from cix.org in the file cix.nets.  The current
     revision of this list is: 3-MAR-1992.

     EUnet, the pan-European open systems computer network, has recently
     joined the CIX.

     Send mail to info@cix.org for information regarding the CIX.

     Mark Fedor  (fedor@uu.psi.com)

CONCERT
-------

     CONCERT added six new Universities/Colleges this month to its list
     of connected sites. The new schools include Catawba College, Chowan
     College, Elon College, Meredith College, Queens College, and Shaw
     University.

     CONCERT staff members participated in the National Net 92
     conference held in Washington, DC. The CONCERT staff demonstrated
     their current Packet Video Videoconferencing facilities. National
     Net 92 visitors were able to view in a workstation X Window the
     regularly scheduled programming on the MCNC's CONCERT Video
     Network's general purpose channels. Viewers were also able to
     participate in interactive collaborative sessions with people in
     MCNC`s Visualization Center located in Research Triangle Park,
     North Carolina. The production ANS T3 network was used for the
     communications from Washington to Research Triangle Park.

     CONCERT staff also particpated in the IETF workshop held in San
     Diego.  At the IETF, work on the CONCERT trouble ticket system was
     presented to the UCP working group. The trouble ticket system is
     based on freely available software tools, including the postgres
     database package available from Berkeley. Testing of the system is
     in progress, and it is planned for the system to be made available
     to interested sites "real soon now" (hopefully by the end of April,
     or early May).

     Tom Sandoski <tom@concert.net>





Cooper                                                         [Page 14]

Internet Monthly Report                                       March 1992


FARNET (FEDERATION OF AMERICAN RESEARCH NETWORKS)
-------------------------------------------------

     FARNET activities for February and March, 1992

     FARNET sponsored a workshop on improving end-to-end reliability and
     operations capability in the Internet, on February 10-12, with
     support from the National Science Foundation.  Attendees included
     technical and management staff from FARNET member organizations and
     representatives from HPCC agencies, the IETF, two RBOCs, and the
     library community.  Preliminary results were released before the
     March IETF meeting.  A final report will be available in about
     three weeks.  More information about the workshop is available on
     host farnet.org via anonymous ftp.  Look in the
     /farnet/farnet_docs/orlando-ws directory.  Note that the results
     are not fully processed yet; the final report will contain our
     complete recommendations.

     FARNET President Eric Hood testified before the Subcommittee on
     Science of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology on
     March 12.  Hood praised the performance of the National Science
     Foundation in managing the NSFNET program and called for the
     extension of network services to new communities, cooperation among
     Federal agencies in the NREN program, and relaxation of the NSFNET
     "Appropriate Use Policy" to permit greater commercial use of the
     network.  The full text of his testimony and that of the other
     witnesses is available on host farnet.org, directory /farnet/nren.

     FARNET is working on a number of project ideas in K12 networking,
     including one with the national consortium of magnet high schools
     of science, math and technology.  FARNET and magnet school
     representatives met in Maryland on March 22 to discuss how a joint
     project might be implemented and have agreed to work together on a
     preliminary proposal.

     FARNET and Merit sponsored a series of demonstrations at National
     Net92 (March 25-27) to showcase how people are using the Internet
     today to support education and research, in settings from
     elementary school to graduate school.  Archie, WAIS, Gopher, the
     Merit Cruise of the Internet, and several K12 applications were
     demonstrated.  Other FARNET members exhibiting at the meeting
     included CONCERT/MCNC and Cornell University.

     The next FARNET meeting will be held in Research Triangle, North
     Carolina, May 13-15.  The topic is "Business and Strategic Planning
     for Your Organization."  Guest registrations are available.  For
     more information, contact Laura Breeden at FARNET.




Cooper                                                         [Page 15]

Internet Monthly Report                                       March 1992


     FARNET will host a BOF at the spring Interop in Washington, DC, May
     21, on "Why State and Regional Networks?"

     Laura Breeden <breeden@farnet.org>

ISI
---

     GIGABIT NETWORKING

     Tom Tignor, Bob Braden, Steve Casner, Eve Schooler, and Jon Postel
     attended the IETF meetings in San Diego, Ca, March 15-16.  Steve
     Casner, and Eve Schooler attended Multimedia '92 Conference in
     Monterey, California.

     Joyce Reynolds, attended the Coalition of Networked Information
     Meetings, March 23 - 25, Washington, D.C. as an invited
     speaker/panelist: "User Services Planning in the Internet" with
     (Paul Evan Peters (chair), George Strawn, Vint Cerf, and Brenden
     Kehoe).  Joyce Reynolds, was a Briefing Leader: User Services and
     Information/Directory Services (with Chris Weider), Two sessions.

     Joyce Reynolds attended National Net 92, March 25 - 27, Washington,
     D.C., as an invited speaker: "Users and Intermediaries".   Invited
     panelist: User Services Panel (with Laura Breeden, Jack Pope
     (chair), John Rugo, John Martin, Carol Lambert, Susan Calcari, and
     Sandy Merola).

     Joyce Reynolds attended the NASA Internet Users Conference, March
     30 - April 3, Greenbelt, Maryland, as an invited Speaker: "Internet
     Information Servers", "User Services Planning in the Internet".

     Six RFCs were published this month.

        RFC 1280:  Postel, J., Editor, Internet Activities Board, "IAB
                   Official Protocol Standards", March 1992.

        RFC 1306:  Nicholson, A., and J. Young, "Experiences Supporting
                   By-Request Circuit-Switched T3 Networks", Cray
                   Research, Inc., March 1992.

        RFC 1308:  Weidner, C., (ANS), and J. Reynolds, (ISI), "Executive
                   Introduction to Directory Services", March 1992.

        RFC 1309:  Weidner, C., (ANS), J. Reynolds, (ISI), and S. Heker
                   (JVNC), "Technical Overview of Directory Services",
                   March, 1992.




Cooper                                                         [Page 16]

Internet Monthly Report                                       March 1992


        RFC 1310:  Lyman Chapin, Chair, Internet Activities Board,
                   "The Internet Standards Process", March 1992.

        RFC 1311:  J. Postel, Editor, Internet Activities Board,
                   "Introduction to the STD Notes", March 1992.

     Ann Westine Cooper (Cooper@ISI.EDU)

     MULTIMEDIA CONFERENCING

     The March IETF meeting in San Diego was an exciting one for those
     interested in teleconferencing.  The general sessions plus sessions
     of the Audio/Video Transport working group and the Teleconferencing
     Architecture BOF were "audiocast" using packet audio over the
     Internet to listeners at 20 sites on three continents spanning 16
     timezones.  In the AVT WG, Steve Casner set forth a rough strawman
     for a real-time transport protocol and led a discussion of how it
     should be modified.  This protocol should replace the out-dated
     Network Voice Protocol we are using temporarily in the packet audio
     programs.  The goal is to have the new protocol ready for use in
     programs on a wide variety of platforms in time for a second
     audiocast from the Boston IETF.

     In the Telearch BOF, Eve Schooler gave a presentation on the
     Connection Control Protocol.  Flexible management of multimedia
     connections will be the next big step required for packet
     teleconferencing to work on more than an experimental basis.

     Eve Schooler, Steve Casner (schooler@ISI.EDU, casner@ISI.EDU

JVNCNET
-------

     I. General information

     A. How to reach us:

             1-800-35-TIGER  (from anywhere in the United States)
             by e-mail
                     NOC:  noc@jvnc.net
                     Service desk:  service@jvnc.net
             by mail:  U.S. mail address:
             Princeton University
             B6 von Neumann Hall
             Princeton, NJ  08544
             (Director: Sergio Heker)





Cooper                                                         [Page 17]

Internet Monthly Report                                       March 1992


     B.  Hours

             NOC:  24 hours/day, seven days a week
             Service desk:  9:00 to 5:00 pm, M - F (except holidays)

     C.  Other info available on-line from NICOL

             Telnet to nicol.jvnc.net.
             Login ID is nicol and no password.

     D.  RFCs on-line

     To obtain RFCs from the official JvNCnet repository (two methods)

          ftp nicol.jvnc.net; username:  nicol;  password: <your email
          address>
          RFC automailer
          Send email to sendrfc@jvnc.net.  Subject line is RFCxxxx.
          xxxx represents the RFC number.  RFCs with three digits only
          need three digits in the request.

     II. New Information

     A.  New on-line members (fully operational February 1992)

          Connecticut College, New London, CT
          Dow Jones and Company, Princeton, NJ
          Hitachi America, Inc., Princeton, NJ
          UNIX System Laboratories, Inc., Summit, NJ
          Hoffmann-La Roche, Nutley, NJ
          Biosym Technology, Parsippany, NJ
          Choice Publishing, Middletown, CT
          Delphi Inc., Newton, MA
          System Design Associates, Lambertville, NJ

     B.  JvNCnet Network System Administration Symposium

          The symposium held at Princeton University on April 3, 1992
          focused on SendMail, Domain Name Service, and Network News. A
          group of network managers, system administrators, and
          interested members of the Internet community listened to a
          panel of three experts explicitly detail how to appropriately
          set up a new system for using the Internet.  They also
          provided ways to streamline a user's current system.

          Neil Rickert of Northern Illinois University covered the role
          of SendMail as a Mail Transfer Agent (MTA).  Mail strategies
          and setting up the "config" file were illustrated via on-line



Cooper                                                         [Page 18]

Internet Monthly Report                                       March 1992


          examples.

          Ed Anselmo of Yale University explained setting up and
          troubleshooting Cnews at a news site.

          Roy Marantz of Rutgers University explained how to use name
          servers and remedies for name service difficulties.

     C.  JvNCnet K-12 Dial-up Connectivity Program

          JvNCnet is currently providing network access to the New
          Jersey Department of Education and several public school
          districts in the state. The Internet link enables students and
          teachers to use a variety of databases and interactive
          applications to complement classroom experiences and
          significantly expands the channel of communication for both.
          Teachers exchange novel ideas and instructional strategies as
          well as obtain expertise from diverse educational
          professionals and members of the academic and research
          communities.  Children learn about peers who live in different
          cities or even countries, practice using a foreign language,
          participate in mentoring with undergraduate friends, and
          access the World Fact Book, NASA Space Link, or remote library
          card catalogs (to acquire a book through inter-library loan),
          all via the Internet.  Montgomery, Bergenfield, Lawrence
          Township, Ridgewood, West Windsor-Plainsboro, Roselle Borough,
          and South Brunswick are exploring the network and are finding
          out about its wonderful stored treasures and how children are
          inspired and engaged using them.  The potential?  Students
          will continue communicating, searching, reading, and learning
          more about something they are interested in.

     D.  Miscellaneous

         Please stop by the JvNCnet booth at Interop (Washington,DC)
         and say hello......May 20-22, 1992.

     E.  For information about planned JvNCnet symposia, please send
         email to "symposium@jvnc.net" or call 1-800-35-TIGER.

     F.  For information about the JvNCnet K-12 activities, send email
         toK-12@jvnc.net.  To request subscription to the K-12 mailing
         list, send email to k12-request@jvnc.net.

     Rochelle Hammer (hammer@jvnc.net)






Cooper                                                         [Page 19]

Internet Monthly Report                                       March 1992


LOS NETTOS
----------

     Los Nettos was configured to support the IETF audio-cast of
     portions of the proceedings.  The link from NOSC to ISI and Dartnet
     was used for this traffic. AGS+ router upgrades are due next month
     for all sites.

     Walt Prue (Prue@ISI.EDU)

MIDNET
------

     MIDnet has begun the transition to the T3 backbone by routing a
     portion of the traffic to the T3.  We expect the transition to be
     completed by mid-May.

     MIDnet recently formed a Network Information Center and has hired
     Carol Farnham to manage the Center.

     Current membership for MIDnet totals 85, 60 members and 25
     associates.

     Carol Farnham <cfarnham@unl.edu>

MITRE Corporation
-----------------

     Bill Barns, Kathy Dodd, Jiso Geiter, Walt Lazear, Cindy Bagwell,
     and Sally Tarquinio attended the IETF in San Diego.  They
     participated in the areas of high-speed, routing, net management,
     and OSI.  Walt presented a paper on OSI packet filtering issues to
     the OSI NOOP group.

     Kathy presented a talk on commercial net management packages to a
     MITRE Technical Information Exchange meeting that included several
     government sponsors.  Later, she demonstrated several products.
     Kris Krishnan installed, evaluated, and demonstrated the Remedy
     trouble ticket system to government sponsors.

     John McGuthry configured a Sun's X.400 MHS product to test with a
     full OSI stack over the Internet to U. Wisconsin's ISODE PP
     implementation.  This involved gaining connectivity through
     regionals (again) and coordinating the configurations of the two
     implementations.  Actual message exchange will occur in early
     April.

     Walt Lazear, (lazear@gateway.mitre.org)



Cooper                                                         [Page 20]

Internet Monthly Report                                       March 1992


NEARNET (NEW ENGLAND ACADEMIC AND RESEARCH NETWORK)
---------------------------------------------------

     NEARnet Membership

     NEARnet has grown to 124 members.

     NEARnet Trouble Ticket System

     The NEARnet Trouble Ticket System is now available.  The system was
     built by Dan Long, on an Informix Relational Database running on a
     SUN Sparcstation.  Using an Embedded-SQL (in C) package to
     interface to the mail system (MMDF), the Informix package front-end
     provides a simple method for entering and searching ticket
     information from the NEARnet database.

     The system is available via anonymous FTP on nic.near.net in the
     file: pub/nearnet-ticket-system-v1.2.tar.  Bug reports, discussion,
     fixes, improvements, and questions should be addressed to:
     tt@nic.near.net.  To join this list, mail to: tt-
     request@nic.near.net

     IETF

     Dan Long chaired the User Connectivity Problems (UCP) working group
     at the IETF in San Diego, CA.  John Curran presented the NEARnet
     OSI Routing Plan to the OSI Network Operations (NOOP) working
     group.  Scott Bradner gave a presentation on "NSFNET Performance"
     at the IETF closing session.

     NEARnet This Month

     The March 1992 issue of the electronic bulletin "NEARnet This
     Month" has been distributed.  Past issues of the bulletin are
     available via anonymous FTP at nic.near.net, in the directory
     newsletters/nearnet-this-month.

     NEARnet K-12 Workshop

     On March 11, NEARnet and the Massachusetts Telecomputing Coalition
     held a workshop to develop innovative educational partnerships
     between NEARnet and the educators and administrators from the
     kindergarten through twelve grade educational community in New
     England.  Close to 120 people attended the workshop held at Pine
     Manor College, in Chestnut Hill, Massachusetts.  Stephen Hall,
     director of Harvard University's Office for Information Technology,
     and Eva Kampits, Academic Dean of Pine Manor College welcomed the
     attendees and announced the workshop as a milestone and an



Cooper                                                         [Page 21]

Internet Monthly Report                                       March 1992


     opportunity to improve education in New England.

     Beth Lowd, of the Massachusetts Telecomputing Coalition served as
     the moderator for the morning panel which included: Joan Gargano,
     of the University of California at Davis, Jan Meizel of Davis High
     School in California, and JoAnn Schlachter of the Board of
     Cooperative Education Services (BOCES) in New York.

     There were five simultaneous break out sessions each repeated once
     in the morning and once in the afternoon.  The sessions included an
     Introduction to the Internet by Martin Huntley, Director of the
     South Coast Educational Collaborative's Computer Technology Center.
     A Technical Session was lead by Steve Kelley of the Center for
     Educational Leadership and Technology.  Jerry Olson of Clark
     University lead a session which addressed the issues of building
     partnerships in business, higher education, and the K-12 community.

     Melanie Goldman of Harvard University, Joan Gargano, of the
     University of California at Davis, and Linda Carl of the New York
     State Educational Network (NYSERNET) presented models for NEARnet
     institutions to following in order to provide support for K-12
     access to the Internet.  Juliette Avots, of the Wellesley High
     School, JoAnn Schlachter from the BOCES in New York, and Jan Meizel
     of Davis High School lead a session focused on instructional
     application issues used in teaching

     The closing keynote address was delivered by Beverly Hunter of the
     National Science Foundation.

     NEARnet Information and Training Session

     As part of the NEARnet Program Plan for User Services, NEARnet is
     working with three small colleges in an effort to learn more about
     the needs of new members and in turn to develop an ongoing training
     program.

     On March 19, Jim Naro and Corinne Carroll participated in a NEARnet
     Information and Training Session at the College of the Holy Cross
     in Worcester, MA.  The morning session included a panel
     presentation discussing specific areas of interest which included
     an examination of the benefits of an Internet connection and
     questions associated with the usage of the Internet, including
     physical computing resources, usage access levels and control, and
     security issues.  Members of the panel included Jerry Olson of
     Clark University and Pete Miller, formerly of Bowdoin College.  The
     afternoon session included an overview of the Internet and
     application level Internet services, such as electronic mail,
     anonymous file transfer, and remote login, the training concluded



Cooper                                                         [Page 22]

Internet Monthly Report                                       March 1992


     with a "hands-on" tour of anonymous ftp hosts.

     Corinne Carroll <ccarroll@nic.near.net>

NNSC, UCAR/BOLT BERANEK and NEWMAN, INC.
----------------------------------------

     The NNSC staff is working on implementing an automated call
     processing system for the NSFNET Hotline.  This will facilitate the
     processing of some types of requests.

     The NNSC staff is also working on placing the entire newsletter
     online and developing PostScript versions of the sites file and new
     maps.

     A PostScript version of the revised NSF Network Newsletter map is
     available via anonymous FTP at nnsc.nsf.net with the pathname
     nsfnet/nsfmap.ps.  The site list for the map is under the pathname
     nsfnet/sites.  The paper version of the newsletter is in press.

     The NNSC online information collection now has ten directories,
     each of which corresponds to a Request: category in the Info-
     Server, and a directory when retrieved via anonymous FTP.

       calendar        Events of Interest to the Internet Community
       iesg            IETF Steering Group
       ietf            Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
       info            About the info-server
       internet-drafts Documents Proposed to Be RFCs
       isoc            Internet Society (ISOC)
       nsfnet          Documents about the NSFNET, prepared by the NNSC
       phonebook       On-line version of the Internet Manager's
                       Phonebook
       resource-guide  NNSC's Own Guide to Internet Treasures
       rfc             Official documents of the Internet
                       Activities Board

     The NNSC is continuing with refinements of the screen-based
     interface for the WAIS system.

     Cyndi Mills and John Curran participated in several user services
     working group sessions at the IETF in San Diego, CA.

     Corinne Carroll <ccarroll@nnsc.nsf.net>







Cooper                                                         [Page 23]

Internet Monthly Report                                       March 1992


NORTHWESTNET
------------

     On March 12, Executive Director Eric S. Hood testified before the
     U.S.  House Subcommittee on Science in a hearing on the management
     and evolution of the NSFNET.  On behalf of FARNET he addressed
     issues related to the recompetition of the NSFNET backbone and
     development of the NREN.

     Hood was also the keynote speaker for the University of Washington
     Computer Fair.  His speech, entitled "Networking the Nation"
     focused on the past, present, and future of the NREN.

     NorthWestNet would like to welcome two new staff members, Tony
     Naughtin and Carol Brand.  As Manager of Client Services, Tony will
     focus his efforts on managing new member accounts.  Carol, as
     Educational Documentation Specialist, will be responsible for
     educational training and documentation development.

     Work continues toward the publication of the Fourth Edition of the
     NorthWestNet User Services Internet Resources Guide (NUSIRG).
     Jonathan Kochmer, our Educational Services Specialist, is updating
     and developing the guide, which is scheduled for publication in the
     autumn of 1992.

     NorthWestNet
     15400 SE 30th Place, Suite 202          Phone: (206) 562-3000
     Bellevue, WA  98007                     Fax:   (206) 562-4822

     by Schele Gislason <schele@nwnet.net>

NSFNET/ANSNET BACKBONE ENGINEERING
----------------------------------

     T3 Network Status
     =================

     The T3 network remains very reliable and during the month of March
     it carried 5.8 billion packets.  During March we cut traffic over
     to the T3 system from NASA (FIX-E), JVNCNet, and MidNet.  A new T3
     ENSS was installed at FIX-W.  Installation of the T1/T3
     interconnect gateway at Princeton was completed, to act as a backup
     for the Ann Arbor interconnect.  The T3 link between Chicago and
     Palo Alto was re-routed to reduce the overall circuit distance and
     network latency during March.  A temporary T3 ENSS was installed at
     the National Net'92 conference in Washington D.C. to support
     several application demonstrations including a packetized video
     application.  Interactive videoconferencing sessions were sustained



Cooper                                                         [Page 24]

Internet Monthly Report                                       March 1992


     across the T3 network between MCNC in North Carolina and the Net'92
     conference in Washington.

     There are several T3 BGP routing software enhancements that were
     developed and tested during March for deployment in April. These
     include interpretation of different Inter-AS external metrics,
     improved version negotiation, and improved aggregation of networks
     into a single update.

     We have encountered a few T3 problems during March.  There is a
     memory leak bug in the SNMP daemon running on the T3 nodes that
     causes a very slow increase in memory utilization over time.  This
     has caused some nodes to suffer from problems wih paging space, and
     route daemon problems.  A workaround has been applied until a bug
     fix is provided for this.

     We have had several RS6000 FDDI adapter problems during March where
     the adapter will freeze.  We experienced this at Pittsburgh
     following a facilities problems that caused high temperature
     conditions.  We have also observed similar intermittent FDDI
     adapter problems at San Diego (ENSS135), Champaign (ENSS129), and
     Palo Alto (ENSS128).  Each of these adapters has been replaced.  We
     expect to replace all RS6000 FDDI adapters with a new higher
     performance/reliable adapter during the summer.  We have also
     experienced an RS6000 ethernet interface freeze problem at
     Pittsburgh and FIX-E.  We have replaced both of these interfaces
     and will deploy a microcode bug fix to all ethernet adapters during
     April.

     T1 Network Status
     =================

     During March we continued to support changes on the T1 system to
     reduce congestion and stability problems.  Although we have
     migrated a large fraction of traffic to the T3 system, we are still
     observing stability problems due to increased routing complexity
     and CPU problems on several RCP nodes. As we add more networks to
     the T3 system we re-announce these networks to the T1 system at the
     interconnect gateways.  The IS-IS link state packet size being
     computed is now over 25Kbytes at several locations.  Additionally
     the T1 network is supporting over 10 EGP peers at several locations
     which increases the load on the RCP nodes.  RCP-13-1 at Palo Alto
     has suffered the most during March.  These routing problems are
     independent of traffic load on the PSP nodes.

     We have made several changes to alleviate these problems. First, we
     have implemented some performance improvements in the T1 routing
     software and improved the coding efficiency of the T1 network LSP



Cooper                                                         [Page 25]

Internet Monthly Report                                       March 1992


     packets to reduce the size.  The performance improvements have been
     deployed and the LSP packet size compression will be deployed in
     April.  We have also upgraded several RCP nodes with faster RT/PC
     processor cards.  These cards will improve the RCP CPU performance
     by about 30%.

     Phase-III T3 Network Upgrade Plan Summary
     =========================================

     ANS & Merit are planning a major upgrade to the ANS/NSFNET T3
     backbone service beginning in late April which is scheduled to
     complete at the end of May.  The upgrade involves changing all of
     the T3 interface adapters in the RS/6000 T3 routers as well as the
     DSUs.  The new T3 adapter (called RS960) supports on-card packet
     forwarding which will dramatically improve the performance, as
     packet forwarding will not require support by the main RS6000 CPU.
     The mechanism used will allow a T3 adapter to send data directly to
     another adapter across the RS6000 bus.  The reliability of the new
     RS960 adapter is much greater than the existing T3 adapter (known
     as "Hawthorne T3 adapter").

     We will also upgrade the DSU to provide "C-bit parity" over the T3
     links.  C-bit parity (based on ANSI T1.107A spec.) will provide
     improved end-to-end real-time link level network management
     information.  C-bit parity is conceptually comparable to Extended
     Super Framing (ESF) over T1 circuits.  Other minor changes on the
     router include the replacement of the fan, the I/O planar card, and
     associated cabling to support the adapter upgrade.

     The result of this upgrade will be higher speed packet switching
     and increased SNMP functionality, better T3 link monitoring, higher
     T3 router reliability and availability, better diagnostic and
     repair capability as well as improved statistical monitoring
     support.

     The deployment of this upgrade will temporarily affect T3 network
     connectivity while the core node (CNSS) and end node (ENSS) routers
     are upgraded.  In order to minimize down time, all nodes will be
     upgraded during off-hours on weekends.

     The target start date for the phase-III upgrade is April 24.  This
     is contingent upon successful completion of the test plan described
     below.  Implementation of the deployment is planned to cover six
     steps, each step taking place over a Friday night/Saturday morning
     8 hour window.  Each step will correspond to the upgrade of all
     CNSS's located at two adjacent POPs and all of the T3 ENSS nodes
     supported by those CNSS's.  T3 network outages at NSFNET midlevel
     T3 network sites are expected to average 2 hours per step, although



Cooper                                                         [Page 26]

Internet Monthly Report                                       March 1992


     we have provisioned an 8 hour window to accomplish the upgrade to
     the T3 ENSS and adjacent CNSS nodes.  NSFNET T3 midlevel networks
     will be cut over to the T1 backbone prior to the scheduled upgrade
     and will remain on the T1 until the affected nodes are upgraded and
     network reachability has been successfully re-established.

     During the outage period where the T3 CNSS routers are upgraded
     (expected to be 2 hours), traffic from other T1 and lower speed
     ENSS nodes, as well as T1 CNSS transit traffic will be continue to
     be routed via the T1 safetynet circuits.

     All upgrades will start on a Friday night, with a starting time of
     approximately 23:00 EST.  There will be two exceptions: changes to
     the Denver and Cleveland facilities will be starting at
     approximately 24:00 local time.  Each CNSS site should take about 8
     hours to complete, with the exception of the New York City core
     node.  At the New York City site, we will also be physically moving
     the equipment within the POP and expect this move to add about 4
     hours to the upgrade there.  Although each upgrade is expected to
     require 8 hours to complete, we are reserving the entire weekend,
     approximately 23:00 local time on Friday to 24:00 local time on
     Sunday, for possible disruptions to service.  This window will
     allow enough time to debug any unforeseen problem that may arise.
     A second visit to core nodes will be required to replace a single
     remaining old-technology T3 adapter.  This will result in a T3
     outage of approximately 105 minutes at sites as indicated below.

     We have established a tentative upgrade scheduled which is
     contingent upon successful completion of all testing (described
     below).  The current upgrade schedule has been distributed to the
     regional technical liasons.

     It is anticipated that with the exception of the T3 ENSS indicated
     site outages other ENSS nodes and transit traffic services will be
     switched across the safetynet and T1 CNSS concentrators during the
     upgrades.  However brief routing transients or instabilities may be
     observed.  NSR messages will be posted 48 hours in advance of any
     scheduled changes and questions or comments on the schedule or plan
     may be directed to the ie@merit.edu mailing list.

     T3 Research Network RS960 Test Plan and Experiences
     ===================================================

     This upgrade is the culmination of several months of development
     and lab and network testing of the new technology.  Many of the
     problems identified during the deployment of the phase-II T3
     network have been corrected in the new hardware/software.  A
     summary of the experiences we have had with this technology on the



Cooper                                                         [Page 27]

Internet Monthly Report                                       March 1992


     T3 Research network is described below.

     ANS/Merit and their partners maintain a full wide area T3/T1
     Research network for development and testing of new hardware,
     software, and procedures prior to introduction on the production
     networks.  The T3 Research network includes 3 core node locations
     with multiple fully configured CNSS routers.  There are 5 ENSS
     sites at which we maintain full T3 ENSS routers as well as local
     ethernet and FDDI LANs that interconnect multiple peer routers and
     test hosts.  These test network is designed to emulate the
     production network configuration as much as possible.  The wide
     area Research network interconnects with multiple testbeds at each
     of the 5 ENSS locations.  These testbeds are configured to emulate
     regional and campus network configurations.

     General Testing Goals and Methods
     ---------------------------------

     Unit and system testing of all phase-III technology is conducted
     first in the development laboratories, and then regression tested
     on the development testbeds at each of the participating sites.
     The primary goal for testing of the phase-III technology on the T3
     Research network is to determine whether the new technology meets
     several acceptance criterion for deployment on the production
     network.  These criterion include engineering requirements such as
     routing, packet forwarding, manageability, and fault tolerance.
     They also include regression testing against all known problems
     that have been corrected to date on the T3 system, including all of
     its components.

     The following are secondary goals that the test plan includes:

     1. To gain experience with new components so that the NOC and
        engineering staffs can recover from problems once in production.

     2. To identify any problems resulting from attempts to duplicate
        production network traffic load and distributions on the Test
        Network.

     3. To perform load saturation, route flapping, and other stress
        tests to measure system response and determine failure modes
        and performance limits.

     4. To duplicate selected system and unit tests in a more
        production-like environment.

     5. To design and execute tests and that reflect "end-user
        perceptions" of network performance and availability.



Cooper                                                         [Page 28]

Internet Monthly Report                                       March 1992


     6. To isolate new or unique components under test to evaluate new
        criterion or performance objectives for testing those specific
        new components.  Regression testing against the entire system
        is also emphasized.

     7. To independantly evaluate the validity of specific tests to
        ensure their usefulness.

     Phase-III Components to be tested
     =================================

     The RS960 interface upgrade consists of two new hardware
     components:

        1. RS960 DS3/HSSI interfaces
        2. New T3 DSU adapters
             a. Communication card with c-bit parity (ANSI T1.107A)
             b. High Speed Serial Interface (HSSI) interface card
                (HSSI - Developed by Cisco & T3plus Inc. is defacto
                standard comparable to V.35 or RS-422).

     There will be several new software components tested for the
     target production network AIX 3.1 operating system level:

        1. RS960 DS3 driver & kernel modifications
        2. SNMP software
             a. SNMP Daemon, DSU proxy subagent
             b. T3 DSU logging and interactive control programs
        3. RS960 adapter firmware
        4. New RS960 utility programs for AIX Operating System
             a. ifstat - Interface statistics
             b. ccstat - On-Card  Statistics

     General Areas Tested
     ====================

     The following areas comprise the areas where test objectives a are
     exercized. Extensive testing is done to ensure that we meet these
     objectives.

       1) Packet Forwarding
          a. Performance and stress testing
          b. Reliability under stress conditions








Cooper                                                         [Page 29]

Internet Monthly Report                                       March 1992


       2) Routing
          a. Focus on consistency of routes
             - across system tables and smart card(s) tables
             - after interface failure
             - after network partitioning
             - after rapid node/circuit/interface transitions
             - under varying traffic load conditions
          b. Limit testing
             - determine limits on:
               - number of routes
               - number of AS's
               - packet sizes
               - number of networks
               - number of nets at given metric per node
             - system behavior when these limits are exceeded
          c. Interoperability with Cisco BGP testing

       3) System monitoring via SNMP
          a. RS960 hardware, driver, microcode
          b. DSU functions, C-bit parity end-to-end connectivity
              and performance

       4) End to End Tests
          a. Connection availability
             - does TCP connection stay open in steady state?
          b. Throughput
             - measure throughput on host to host connection
               through network
          c. Delay
             - measure packet delays from user point of view
             - observe round trip, and unidirectional delays
          d. Steady State Performance
             - evaluate effect on TCP connection due to network changes

       5) Unit Test Verification
          a. Repeat selected regression tests performed by development
          b. Exercize DSU functions
             - measure packet loss
             - perform loopback tests
          c. Induce random & deterministic noise into circuits and
             evaluate interface hardware/software response

       6) Deployment Phase Testing
          a. Test all machine configurations that will be used during
             the deployment transition phases
          b. Measure throughput under production load across
             transitional configurations (RS960 T3 <-> Hawthorne
             T3 path)



Cooper                                                         [Page 30]

Internet Monthly Report                                       March 1992


       7) NOC Procedure Testing
          a. During testing, identify all possible failure modes
          b. Install & document specific recovery procedures
          c. Train NOC staff on test network

     Phase-III Test Experiences and Results To-Date Summary
     ======================================================

     Testing is scheduled to continue up until 4/17.  We will then
     freeze the test network in preparation for deployment on 4/24.
     Testing will continue throughout the deployment.

     Overall Testnet Observations
     ----------------------------

     The performance of the RS960 technology is far superior to that of
     the existing Hawthorne T3 adapter technology.  Although peak
     performance throughput tests have not yet been conducted, the
     steady state performance for card-card transfers has been measured
     in excess of 20KPPS with excellent stability.

     During the early deployment of the RS960 and DSU technology on the
     testnetwork, we observed several new transmission facility problems
     that were not observed in the lab tests, or in earlier DS3 adapter
     tests.  We found a new form of data pattern sensitivity where under
     certain conditions the new DSU can generate a stream of 010101 bits
     that induce an Alert Indicator Signal (blue alarm) within the MCI
     network.

     The RS960 and existing Hawthorne T3 card do not interoperate over a
     serial link.  However they will interoperate if both are installed
     within a single CNSS node using specially developed driver software
     which uses the main RS6000 CPU for packet forwarding between the
     RS960 and Hawthorne T3 cards.  As part of the phase-III migration
     period we had originally planned to support an interim CNSS
     configuration of 3xHawthorne T3 adapters and 1xRS960 adapter as
     well as a 1xHawthorne T3 & 3xRS960 T3 interim CNSS configuration.
     Unfortunately during the performance tests we determined that the
     3xHawthorne T3 & 1xRS960 T3 configuration creates a performance
     bottleneck that could cause congestion under heavy load.  This is
     due to the interim state RS960 <-> Hawthorne interface software
     driver bottlneck where the main RS6000 CPU is used for packet
     forwarding between dis-similar adapters.  We have therefore
     eliminated this configuration from the deployment plan and will
     support only the 1xHawthorne, 3xRS960 configuration as an interim
     state during the deployment.  We are also looking various
     deployment strategies that will avoid any congestion across an
     interim RS960<->Hawthorne path.  These strategies include interior



Cooper                                                         [Page 31]

Internet Monthly Report                                       March 1992


     T3 link metric adjustment, safetynet link load splitting, careful
     placement of these transition links to avoid hot-spots, or
     temporary addition of new DS3 links that will short-cut these
     transition links.

     We are using something called a copy tool that was developed as a
     host system that interfaces on a production network ethernet, and
     test network ethernet whereby all production ethernet packets are
     promiscuously copied on the host, given a new destination address,
     and injected into the Research network to simulate production
     traffic flows within the Research network.  We have found a bug in
     the copy tool that has caused problems on the test ethernets at a
     couple of Research network locations.  Everytime the copy tool is
     re-booted, we experience congestion on the test ethernets due to an
     erroneous broadcast of a copied packet onto a test ethernet.  We
     are fixing this problem before we run these tests again.

     We have run numerous route flapping tests where will install and
     delete routes repeatedly on all installed RS960 cards and have not
     encountered any chronic problems so far.  The installation and
     deletion of 6000 routes on the card is fast enough that we can not
     measure an inconsistencies between different on-card route tables.
     We have compiled a limit of 6000 routes on the card for now since
     this reflects the deployment configuration, however we can support
     up to 14000 IP routes on the card if necessary.

     We have opened and closed over 100 problems during the several
     months of lab and Research network testing on RS960.  There are
     currently 14 open problems remaining from our tests to date and we
     can provide some details on this for anyone interested.  We have
     fixes for most of these problems that will be regression tested on
     the Research network next week.  We expect to close these problems
     prior to deployment of RS960 on 4/24.

NSFNET/INFORMATION SERVICES
---------------------------

     Networks configured for announcement on the NSFNET infrastructures
     number 4,976 at the end of March, 1992. Of this total, 2,721
     networks are configured for announcement on the T3 backbone, and
     1,697 networks are located outside of the United States. March
     packet traffic on the NSFNET is discussed in the NSFNET/ANSNET
     Backbone Engineering report to the Internet Monthly Report.

     The March meeting of the IETF in San Diego, CA was well attended by
     Merit/NSFNET staff: Ellen Hoffman and Pat Smith of Information
     Services; Jessica Yu, Elise Gerich, Sue Hares, and Mark Knopper of
     Internet Engineering; Dale Johnson and Andrew Adams of Network



Cooper                                                         [Page 32]

Internet Monthly Report                                       March 1992


     Management Systems.  Hoffman and Smith continued their activities
     as co-chairs of their respective User Services working groups, and
     Yu chairs the BGP Deployment working group. Hares, Gerich and Yu
     also participate in the Routing and Addressing (ROAD) working
     group. Gerich was the Merit Internet Engineering representative to
     the IEPG, which also convened in San Diego.

     Ken Horning of Merit spoke at the Online Computer Library Center
     (OCLC) in Dublin, Ohio. "NREN: Light at the end of a long tunnel,"
     a one-day conference, was sponsored by OhioNet and attended by
     librarians and information services staff from several midwestern
     states. Horning presented an overview of the NSFNET project,
     including recent network use statistics, as well as highlighting
     the role the NSFNET is envisioned to play in the evolving National
     Research and Education Network (NREN).

     The Coalition of Networked Information held the Spring 1992 Meeting
     of the Coalition Task Force in Washington, DC. Ellen Hoffman,
     manager of Merit/NSFNET Information Services, and Laura Kelleher
     participated in the various sessions. The TopNode Internet
     directory project was officially announced at the proceedings.
     Merit will be working with Indiana University on TopNode, with
     responsibilities to include sharing knowledge about network
     resources, assisting in the gathering of such information, and
     creating an X.500 version of the TopNode directory. In keeping with
     the meeting theme, "Network Navigating and Navigators," Merit
     Network, Inc. introduced its "Cruise of the Internet," with the
     gracious cooperation of CNI.

     The "Cruise" is an interactive instructional guide to the Internet.
     The Introduction section compares the Internet to an ocean. In the
     Navigation Tools section, some of the tools which can help navigate
     the Internet (e-mail, FTP and Telnet) are introduced. The
     Applications section includes several examples of how people are
     using Internet resources and how to access those resources. Created
     by Steve Burdick of Merit Network, Inc.  using MacroMind Director
     for the Macintosh, the Cruise is based on a presentation written by
     Laura Kelleher and Mark Davis-Craig, also of Merit. A Windows
     version is being planned.

     The beta version (1.0.B) of Merit Network's "Cruise of the
     Internet" is being distributed without charge for evaluation and
     use. The Cruise is available for anonymous FTP as a self-extracting
     archive (.sea). To extract the Cruise and run the presentation,
     system requirements are:

          A Macintosh II or Quadra series computer
          8-bit color and any color monitor (13" minimum recommended)



Cooper                                                         [Page 33]

Internet Monthly Report                                       March 1992


          System 6.07 or 7.x
          Approximately 2 MB of disk space
          4 MB RAM recommended

     The Cruise is available via anonymous FTP from nic.merit.edu as
             /internet/resources/merit.cruise.sea.hqx The READ ME file
     is available separately as
             /internet/resources/merit.cruise.readme.txt

     Merit is interested in what you think of this presentation and how
     you might want to use it. Please send your comments via e-mail to
             cruise-feedback@merit.edu

     National Net '92, "Advancing the Leading Edge," convened at Loews
     L'enfant Plaza Hotel in Washington, D.C. March 25-27. The NSFNET
     partnership provided connectivity for several demonstrations. Phil
     Hirt of the Merit Network Systems Hardware Support group deployed
     and managed the LAN. Bill Norton, of Merit's Network Management
     Systems group, demonstrated "discoveryRover," one of the primary
     tools used by the Merit NOC to monitor the NSFNET and written by
     Norton. The demonstration showcased the graphical interface to
     Rover which builds the topology display of the network from a
     network status file. Node and link state changes are reflected in
     color changes on the X Windows-based display. Merit/NSFNET and
     FARNET hosted "The Internet in Action," an exhibition of tools to
     navigate Internet resources, including WAIS, Gopher, Cleveland
     Freenet, and Merit's "Cruise of the Internet." Attending on behalf
     of the Merit/NSFNET Project were Eric Aupperle, President of Merit
     Network, Inc.; Jim Williams, Merit Associate Director for National
     Networking; Ellen Hoffman, manager Merit/NSFNET Information
     Services; Steve Burdick, Laura Kelleher and Pat Smith, Information
     Services; Mark Davis-Craig and Dana Sitzler, Merit Technical
     Support Group; Elise Gerich, Internet Engineering and Bill Norton,
     Network Management Systems.

     Kelleher presented the Cruise of the Internet program at "NSI
     Networking in the Nineties," the Third Annual NASA Science Internet
     User Services Working Group meeting held in Greenbelt, MD, March 30
     - April 3.

     "Making Your NSFNET Conection Count," a Merit Networking Seminar,
     is scheduled for June 1 & 2 in Las Vegas, NV. Scholarships are
     still available to the conference featuring presentations by Donna
     Cox, NCSA; Art St. George, UNM; Tom Grudner, NTPN; and George
     Brett, MCNC. To receive the agenda and registration details, send
     electronic mail to seminar@merit.edu or call 1-800-66-MERIT.

     Jo Ann Ward (jward@merit.edu)



Cooper                                                         [Page 34]

Internet Monthly Report                                       March 1992


PREPNET
-------

     PREPnet had 3 new members during the month of March bringing the
     total to 73.  Childrens' Hospital of Philadelphia will be
     connecting to the Philadelphia hub and Inforum, Inc. to the
     Allentown hub.  DataSource Information Services will be available
     through the connection to Telebase Systems.

     Executive Director, Tom Bajzek, attended NET92.  Marsha Perrott
     participated in IETF.

     PREPnet NIC (prepnet+@andrew.cmu.edu)

PITTSBURGH SUPERCOMPUTER CENTER
-------------------------------

     The PSC is proud to announce the arrival of our next generation of
     massively parallel computer, the Thinking Machines Connection
     Machine, CM-5.  The new machine currently with 4 gigabytes of
     memory distributed among it's 256 processing nodes, has the most
     memory of any machine currently available to the users of the NSF
     centers.  Plans for future expansion of the machine include
     floating point pipelines and a doubling of the memory that will
     enable it to do 32 gigaflops.

     We established a live video link to the site where the CM-5 was
     installed so that we could view the install back at home.  The
     system consisted of a Sony Camera attached to a Sun Sparcstation 1+
     at the install site that communicated via ethernet and fiber to
     another Sun at our home site.  This second machine multicasted to
     workstations locally, reducing the redundancy of information pumped
     over the long haul.

     Matt Mathis, Gene Hastings and Ken Goodwin took part in this
     month's IETF meetings in San Diego.  Matt presented his work with
     BGP Usage at the PSC to the BGP Ultilization Session.  Gene chairs
     the Network Joint Management group and moderates the Network Status
     Reports group.  He also participated in the User Connectivity,
     Operations Area Directorate, Internet School Networking and BGP
     Utilization groups.  Ken participated in the Op-Stats and Router
     Performance Measurement working groups.

     Gene attended the FARNET workshop on the hardening of the Internet
     in February.  The group plans to produce a report and set of
     recommendations to the NSF.  Gene agreed to take part in a
     committee that will produce the final report from notes taken
     during the meetings.  Also in February, Gene and Ken attended



Cooper                                                         [Page 35]

Internet Monthly Report                                       March 1992


     Merit's Advanced Topics Seminars.

     Recent additions to and requests for Internet connectivity through
     the PREPnet regionals include: The Community College Of Allegheny
     County, Shadyside Hospital, Palinet, Albright College, Biological
     Detection Systems, Ansoft Corporation, Messiah College, Transarc
     Corp., Temple University and Children's Hospital of Philadelphia.

     by Stephen Cunningham <CUNNINGHAM@b.psc.edu>

SAIC
----
     We have started planning for the IDPR gated experiment.  We have
     contacted MITRE to see if they will be able, like before, to to
     provide us with their Internet test environment.  We also have
     responses from several users on the Internet who would like to
     participate in the experiment. We would like to include as many
     users as possible, and we are looking for ways to change gated
     implementation to support a "half-gateway" configuration.  This
     will enable one physical gateway to act as an IDPR virtual gateway
     (VG), and hence reduce the number of resources, at one site,
     required for the experiment.

     We have had discussions with Mark Sleeper to identify how to
     incorporate network management experiments.  We have concluded that
     the code previously written for the management agent needs to be
     revised for interface to the IDPR gated module. We will decide
     later what parameters in IDPR want agent to control.  The original
     agent was CMIP based, however the GATED implementation of IDPR will
     mostly likely use SNMP, since the SMUX support is readily
     available.  One path being pursued is a CMIP agent that will use
     SNMP based access routines.

     Z. Avramovic has written a position paper, currently under review
     by D.Mills, that suggests some reduction of IDPR complexity.  She
     is also analyzing CLNP and ENCAPS, two proposals forwarded to the
     IETF, that suggest ways to augment or change Internet address
     space.  The purpose of the analysis is to determine how compatible
     is IDPR architecture with either of the proposals.

     Integration of the VGP module was begun, however there is some
     mismatch between the old VGP code and the new BBN database that
     requires some creative use of the database information and the
     addition of some functions.  However, the overall performance of
     the GATED implementation will still be greatly enhanced by having
     the single common database.  The VGP as well as the CMTP code has
     been modified, but remains untested.




Cooper                                                         [Page 36]

Internet Monthly Report                                       March 1992


     Planned Activities:

     The complexity of the ISODE SMUX interface is still being
     investigated.  By the end of April we will have decided whether or
     not we will use it.  It appears that it should be fairly simple to
     use, but the documentation is somewhat sketchy.

     Chi Chu will update the IDPR kernel interface to support source
     policies and will now use ioctl's rather than syscall's to provide
     a more portable implementation.  Woody Woodburn will be working on
     the user level portion of the GATED implementation.  Once VGP has
     been tested, the SETUP module is the next candidate for
     integration.

     Woody  (woody@sparta.com)

SESQUINET
---------

     Local Installations

     SESQUINET expanded to 37 member institutions with the addition of
     South Coast Computing Services.  The Texas State Technical College
     is scheduled to be installed in April.  SESQUINET has designated
     Waco, TX as its 5th hub site.

     Services

     SESQUINET is now serving as an RFC repository.  RFC's are available
     from FTP.SESQUI.NET in the pub/rfc directory.

     SESQUINET is planning to implement OSI/CLNP routing and has
     received a block of registered addresses from the GSA.  Please
     contact hostmaster@sesqui.net for additional information.

     Other News

     Bill Manning was SESQUINET's representative to the 23rd IETF.

     Members of the SESQUINET staff attended a joint meeting with THEnet
     to discuss routing coordination, system software release levels and
     upgrade planning, and DECNet/OSI planning.

     by Evan Wetstone <evan@sesqui.net>







Cooper                                                         [Page 37]

Internet Monthly Report                                       March 1992


UCL
----

     A proposal for multimedia international services was circulated in
     more polished form.

     IETF Attendance -

     Steve Hardcastle-Kille and Peter Kirstein attended the IETF in
     person.  Jon Crowcroft, Ian Wakeman and a cast of several from
     Cambridge University and Edinburgh University attended as part of
     the impressive Steve's Casner/Deering vat multicast to
     ISI/BBN/DARTNET/OZ etc.  UCL contributed the Multicast Assistance
     Sender/Helper to forward UDP over parts of the Internet that cannot
     adequately perform this function with Loose Source Routed IP. MASH
     has been upgraded to take multicast packets and route them to
     multiple unicat destinations (and vice versa!). It is ill-advised
     to use it where loops may form!

     We also successfully demonstrated medium speed colour video
     conferenceing across (2Mbps) Janet to the annual Networkshop in
     Leeds, with mono slow scan and audio again from London and to
     Cambridge (Cambridgeshire). As part of a related excerscise, we ran
     H.261 video between here and the British Telecom Labs in Ipswich,
     with IP routers carrying other media over a separate B channel.

     Note that we are now starting to field multicast as part of the UK
     JANET IP Service infrastructure (albeit experimentally). We are
     anxious that router vendors start supplying this as a normal
     function.

     Two papers were published in ACM CCR:

     Wang, Z., Crowcroft, J., "Eliminating Periodic Packet Losses
     in the 4.3-Tahoe BSD TCP Congetion Control Algorithm", ACM CCR,
     Vol 22, No 2, April 92.

     Wang, Z., Crowcroft, J., "Analysis of Shortest Path Routing
     Algorithms in a Dynamic Network Environment", ACM CCR,
     Vol 22, No 2, April 92.

     John Crowcroft (j.crowcroft@CS.UCL.AC.UK)









Cooper                                                         [Page 38]

Internet Monthly Report                                       March 1992


UNIVERSITY OF DELAWARE
----------------------

     February 1992 Report


     1.   Our packet-audio/video gear is working well and we are getting
          used to having it around. Work is getting under way on
          studying the networking-specific issues and, in particular, on
          distributed algorithms for managing state and resource
          commitment in the routers.

     2.   The problem that has prevented reliable acquisition of WWVB
          time signals here has still not been found. FCC monitoring
          stations in Maryland and Maine report identifying the critter
          and locating it roughly in Quebec(!), but reports from New
          England sites claim a clear signal and no problem acquiring
          reliable time. I have concluded the FCC guys are chasing the
          wrong bandit and in fact, the critter is nearby.

     3.   Work continues on checkout of the NTP Version-3 time daemon
          implementation for Unix. It is now running on all net-128.4
          munchkins here and on the DARTNET router at ISI, as well as a
          number of alpha sites widely scattered on the globe. Because
          of the problem noted above, DARTNET time service was rehomed
          to ISI, where the WWVB signals appear to be clear.

     March 1992 Report


     1.   The nice folk at Bancomm have loaned us a new product
          combining a packaged GPS receiver and NTP primary time server
          in a suitcase.  Unfortunately, they forgot about gateway
          support, so it talks only to our net-128.4 munchkins at
          present. They are to fix that soon.

     2.   Our experimental, computer-controlled, LORAN-C receiver has
          completed evaluation tests and measurements. A comprehensive
          report, including analysis and design methodology, test
          results, program listings and schematics, lurks in
          pub/ntp/loran.tar.Z on louie.udel.edu.

     3.   We have liberated a Sun IPC to replace our four aging Fuzzball
          time servers dcn1/2/5/6.udel.edu. Work is in progress to
          rack-mount it and all our time machinery and resolve the pesky
          problem of WWVB interference.





Cooper                                                         [Page 39]

Internet Monthly Report                                       March 1992


     4.   A preliminary (beta) distribution of the NTP Version 3 daemon
          for Unix is in pub/ntp/xntp3.tar.Z on louie.udel.edu. This
          distribution is intended for experimental use only and should
          not be used for production service.

     5.   After one last, painstaking review and incorporation of minor
          amendments, the NTP Version 3 specification document has been
           submitted to the RFC Editor.

          Dave Mills (Mills@UDEL.EDU)









































Cooper                                                         [Page 40]

Internet Monthly Report                                       March 1992


DIRECTORY SERVICES
------------------

This section of the Internet Monthly is devoted to efforts working to
develop directory services that are for, or effect, the Internet.  We
would like to encourage any organization with news about directory
service activities to use this forum for publishing brief monthly news
items.  The current reporters list includes:

    o IETF OSIDS Working Group                        [included]
    o IETF DISI Working Group                         [no]
    o Field Operational X.500 Project                 [included]
       - ISI                                          [included]
       - Merit                                        [no]
       - PSI                                          [no]
       - SRI                                          [included]
    o National Institute of Standards and Technology  [no]
    o North American Directory Forum                  [no]
    o OSI Implementor's Workshop (OIW)                [included]
    o PARADISE Project                                [no]
    o PSI DARPA/NNT X.500 Project                     [included]
    o PSI WHITE PAGES PILOT                           [included]
    o Registration Authority Committee (ANSI USA RAC) [no]
    o U.S. Department of State, Study Group D,        [no]
      MHS Management Domain subcommittee (SG-D MHS-MD)

Tom Tignor (tpt2@isi.edu)
DS Report Coordinator

IETF OSIDS WORKING GROUP
------------------------

     The OSI-DS group met at San Diego in three action-packed sessions
     and made vast progress. A fuller report is forthcoming (in April.)

     Steve Hardcastle-Kille (s.kille@cs.ucl.ac.uk)

FOX -- FIELD OPERATIONAL X.500 PROJECT
--------------------------------------

     The FOX project is a DARPA and NSF sponsored effort to provide a
     basis for operational X.500 deployment in the NREN/Internet.  This
     work is being carried out at Merit, NSYERNet/PSI, SRI and ISI.  ISI
     is the main contractor and responsible for project oversight.







Cooper                                                         [Page 41]

Internet Monthly Report                                       March 1992


     ISI
     ---

        ISI is experimenting with some of the DUAs developed by people
        involved in X500. Our focus has been to learn which models are
        simple and lightweight enough to appeal to non-Directory-
        Services people. So far, the whois-based applications look to be
        the most promising.

        Tom Tignor (tpt2@ISI.EDU)

     SRI
     ----

        No Internet-related progress to report.

        Ruth Lang (rlang@nisc.sri.com)

OSI IMPLEMENTER'S WORKSHOP (OIW)
--------------------------------

     Since its last contribution to the Directory monthly report, the
     OIW Directory Services SIG has met twice, once in December and once
     in May.

     SIG work in December focused on wrapping up 1991 work items, moving
     profile text into Version 5 of the Stable Implementation Agreements
     (SIA).  Most of the newly stable text pertains to 1992 Directory
     extensions for Replication (the new X.525 | 9594-9).  It defines a
     number of conformance classes for support of shadowing by
     implementations, clarifies error handling in the new shadowing
     protocol (DISP), and outlines a number of recommend practices for
     shadowing DSAs.

     SIG work in Directory access control per the 1992 extensions has
     mostly been overtaken by the effort in the standards arena to
     incorporate specific error handling into the base amendments, hence
     there is no significant body of working text on access control
     within the SIG.

     A subgroup focusing on distributed operations has made twofold
     progress -- first, it has worked to incorporate profiles on
     distributed operations into SIA v.5 as of the March OIW; second, it
     has been assisting with the definition of OSINET interoperability
     test suites.

     Also in March, the SIG repositioned itself to devote significant
     effort to International Standardized Profiles (ISPs) for the



Cooper                                                         [Page 42]

Internet Monthly Report                                       March 1992


     Directory.  ISPs are essentially alignments of certain core areas
     of the Directory profile between the OIW and the other two regional
     workshops (Europe and Asia-Oceania), and once agreed upon they are
     published as ISO documents.  John Dale from Corporation for Open
     Systems has been acting as ISP editor on the SIG's behalf.

     The current target for ISP draft submission in all areas is late
     1992.  Further work in editing/reviewing ISPs will take place at
     the SIG's next meeting in June, but there is a meeting planned
     between ISP editors from all three workshops for this May in
     Ottawa, Ontario (in conjunction with the ISO/IEC SC21 conference at
     the same location).

     A working group aimed at profiling schema extensions in the 1992
     edition of the Directory standard met for the first time at the
     SIG's March meeting, and their work is expected to continue, with
     any profile text on schema extensions becoming stable by the end of
     the year.

     Another March meeting activity was joint discussion with the MH
     (X.400) SIG, focused on providing support for MHS use of the
     Directory, and on where such support is lacking between 9594-
     6|X.520, 10021-2|X.402, and the respective SIA, taken together.  No
     Workshop action has yet resulted from this, but a contribution from
     the European workshop on attribute support for MHS will be reviewed
     in further joint discussion between the two SIGs in June.

     Finally, it is noteworthy that in 1992, US GOSIP will for the first
     time include text on Directory Services.  This text, which cites
     the SIG's Stable Implementation Agreements on Directory, is
     expected to be drafted by NIST in the very near future.

     As a footnote, both Working and Stable Implementation Agreements,
     for Directory Services (Part 11) and other protocols, are now
     available for anonymous FTP at osi.ncsl.nist.gov, in both
     WordPerfect and ASCII format.  Effort to make them available in
     PostScript format as well should bear some fruit shortly.

     Ken Rossen (kenr@isc.com)

PSI DARPA/NNT X.500 Project
---------------------------

     In response to bug reports from early testers of the software used
     to load DNS zone files into the DIT, changes were made to the
     software.





Cooper                                                         [Page 43]

Internet Monthly Report                                       March 1992


     PSI participated in Directory Services activities at the IETF
     meeting in San Diego.

     The software to generate NADF KAN updates was completed. Comments
     about the KAN update procedure and the update format were fed back
     to the NADF based on implementation experience.

     In response to comments about the initial draft of the Lightweight
     Directory Browsing Protocol received at the IETF meeting (above),
     this document is currently undergoing revision.

     Wengyik Yeong (yeongw@psi.com)

PSI WHITE PAGES PILOT PROJECT
-----------------------------

     No new developments to report this month.

     Wengyik Yeong (yeongw@psi.com)
































Cooper                                                         [Page 44]

Internet Monthly Report                                       March 1992


CALENDAR
--------

Readers are requested to send in dates of events that are
appropriate for this calendar section.


1992 CALENDAR

     Apr 6-16        CCITT SG VII    Geneva, Switzerland
     Apr 21-23       ANSI X3S3.3, Mountaon View, Ca.
     May 4-6         ANSI X3T5
     May 4-8         DECUS '92, Atlanta, GA
     May 4-8         IEEE INFOCOM'92, See IEEE Pub., Florence, Italy
     May 11          T1E1,  Physical Layer Interfaces (ISDN, T1,
                     Broadband, etc.)
                     Williamsburg, VA, Bell Atlantic
     May 12-14       Joint Network Conference 3, Innsbruck, Austria
                     (this is the RARE Networkshop - renamed)
     May 13-15       Third IFIP International Workshop on Protocols
                     for High Speed Networks, Stockholm, Sweden
                     Contact: Per Gunningberg, per@sics.se
                         Bjorn Pehrson, bjorn@sics.se,
                         Stephen Pink, steve@sics.se
     May 18-25       INTEROP92, Washington, D.C.
                     Dan Lynch (dlynch@interop.com)
     May 19-29       ISO/IEC JTC 1/SC 21, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada
     May 27-29       IFIP WG 6.5 Int'l Conference on Upper Layer
                     Protocols, Architectures and Applications
                     Vancouver, Canada
                     plattner<plattner@komsys.tik.ethz.ch>
                     Gerald Neufeld <neufeld@cs.ubc.ca>
     Jun 8           T1M1, Management and Maintenance (ISDN,
                     Broadband, Frame Relay, etc.)
                     Minneapolis, MN, ADC TElecom
     Jun 8-12        OIW, NIST, Gaithersburg, MD
     Jun 10-11       RARE WG1, tentative-Location unknown
     Jun 11-12       RARE COSINE MHS MGR, tentative-Location unknown
     Jun 14-17       ICC-SUPERCOMM'92, Chicago, IL. See IEEE Publ..
     Jun 15-19       INET92, Kobe, Japan
                     Jun Murai (jun@wide.ad.jp), KEIO University
                     Elizabeth Barnhart (barnhart@educom.edu)
                     "North America Contact"
     Jun 16-18       ANSI X3S3.3, Minneapolos, MN
     Jun 22-25       PSTV-XII, Orlando, Florida
                     Umit Uyar, ATT Bell Labs, <umit@honet5.att.com>
                     Jerry Linn, NIST <linnrj@ECF.NCSL.NIST.GOV>




Cooper                                                         [Page 45]

Internet Monthly Report                                       March 1992


     Jun 29-Jul 1    Fourth Workshop on Computer-Aided Verification
                     (CAV 92); see Sigact News, Vol, 22 No. 4
                     Montreal Canada
                     G. Bockmann:  bochmann@iro.umontreal.ca
     Jul 6-10        IEEE802 Plenary, Bloomington, MN
     Jul 13-17       ANSI X3T5
     Jul 13-24       ISO/IEC JTC1/SC6, San Diego, CA
     Aug 2           T1S1, Call Control and Signaling (ISDN,
                     Frame Relay, Broadband ATM)
     Aug 16          T1S1, Call Control and Signaling (ISDN,
                     Frame Relay, Broadband ATM)
     Aug 17-20       ACM SIGCOMM '92, Baltimore, Maryland
                     Deepinder Sidhu
                     <sigcomm92@nri.reston.va.us>
     Aug 24-27       CONCUR '92 -- Third Int'l Conference on
                     Concurrency Theory (Paper deadline March 1, 1992)
                     Rance Cleaveland (rance@csc.ncsu.edu)
                     Scott Smolka  (sas@sunysb.edu)
                     Stony Brook
     Sep 7-11        12th IFIP World Computer Congress
                     Madrid, Spain;  Contact: IFIP92@dit.upm.es
     Sep 14-18       ANSI X3T5
     Sep 21-25       OIW, NIST, Gaithersburg, MD
     Sep 22-24       ANSI X3S3.3, Boston, MA
     Sep 28-30       5th IFIP International Workshop on Protocol
                     Test Systems (IWPTS), Montreal, Canada
                     iwpts@iro.umontreal.ca
     Oct 12-16       FORTE'92, Lannion, France
                     Roland Groz (groz@lannion.cnet.fr)
                     Michel Diaz (diaz@droopy.laas.fr)
     Oct 26-30       INTEROP92, San Francisco
                     Dan Lynch (dlynch@interop.com)
     Oct 28-29       NETWORKS '92, Trivandrum, India
                     S.V. Raghavan (raghavan@shiva.ernet.in)
     Nov 9-13        ANSI X3T5
     Dec             ANSI X3S3.3, Boulder, CO
     Dec 6-9         GLOBECOM '92, Orlando, Florida (See IEEE Publications)
     Dec 7-11        DECUS '92, Las Vegas, NV
     Dec 14-18       OIW, NIST, Gaithersburg, MD


1993 CALENDAR

     Mar 8-12        INTEROP93, Wasington, D.C.
                     Dan Lynch (dlynch@interop.com)
     Mar 8-12        OIW, NIST, Gaithersburg, MD





Cooper                                                         [Page 46]

Internet Monthly Report                                       March 1992


     Apr 18-23       IFIP WG 6.6 Third International Symposium
                     on Integrated Network Management, Sheraton
                     Palace Hotel, San Francisco, CA (kzm@hls.com)
     May 23-26       ICC'92, Geneva, Switzerland
     May-Jun         PSTV-XIII, University of Liege.
                     Contact: Andre Danthine,
     May 23-26       ICC'93, Geneva, See IEEE Publications.
     Jun 7-11        OIW, NIST, Gaithersburg, MD
     Aug 18-21       INET93, San Francisco Bay Area
     Aug 23-27       INTEROP, San Francisco
                     Dan Lynch (dlynch@interop.com)
     Aug             SIGCOMM, San Francisco
     Sep ??          6th SDL Forum, Darmstadt
                     Ove Faergemand (ove@tfl.dk)
     Sep 13-17       OIW, NIST, Gaithersburg, MD
     Sep 20-31       ISO/IEC JTC1/SC6, Seoul, Korea.
     Oct             INTEROP, Paris, France
     Oct 12-14       Conference on Network Information Processing,
                     Sofia, Bulgaria;  Contact: IFIP-TC6
     Nov 9-13        IEEE802 Plenary, LaJolla, CA
     Dec 6-10        OIW, NIST, Gaithersburg, MD


1994 CALENDAR

     Apr 18-22       INTEROP94, Washington, D.C.
                     Dan Lynch (dlynch@interop.com)
     Aug 29-Sep 2    IFIP World Congress
                     Hamburg, Germany; Contact: IFIP
     Sep 12-16       INTEROP94, San Francisco
                     Dan Lynch (dlynch@interop.com)

1995 CALENDAR

     Sep 18-22       INTEROP95, San Francisco, CA
                     Dan Lynch (dlynch@interop.com)

-------------------------------
Note:

       T1E1: Physical Layer Interfaces (ISDN, T1, Broadband, etc.,)
       T1M1:  Management and Maintenance (ISDN, Broadband, Frame
              Relay, etc.)








Cooper                                                         [Page 47]
