





~









February 1992


INTERNET MONTHLY REPORTS
------------------------

The purpose of these reports is to communicate to the Internet Research
Group the accomplishments, milestones reached, or problems discovered by
the participating organizations.

     This report is for Internet information purposes only, and is not
     to be quoted in other publications without permission from the
     submitter.

Each organization is expected to submit a 1/2 page report on the first
business day of the month describing the previous month's activities.

These reports should be submitted via network mail to:

     Ann Westine Cooper (Cooper@ISI.EDU)
     NSF Regional reports - Corinne Carroll (ccarroll@NNSC.NSF.NET)
     Directory Services reports - Tom Tignor (TPT2@ISI.EDU)

Requests to be added or deleted from the Internet Monthly report list
should be sent to "cooper@isi.edu".

Back issues of the Internet Monthly Report can be copied via FTP:

     FTP>  nis.nsf.net
     Login: anonymous guest
     ftp> cd imr
     ls
     get IMRYY-MM.TXT

For example, JUNE 1991 is in the file IMR91-06.TXT.






Cooper                                                          [Page 1]

Internet Monthly Report                                    February 1992


TABLE OF CONTENTS

  INTERNET ACTIVITIES BOARD

     IAB MESSAGE  . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  4
     INTERNET RESEARCH REPORTS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  4
        AUTONOMOUS NETWORKS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  4
        END-TO-END SERVICES  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  4
     RESOURCE DISCOVERY AND DIRECTORY SERVICE. . . . . . . . . page  4
     INTERNET ENGINEERING REPORTS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  4

  Internet Projects

     BARRNET . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  8
     BOLT BERANEK AND NEWMAN, INC.,  . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  8
     CERFNET . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  8
     CIX (COMMERCIAL INTERNET EXCHANGE). . . . . . . . . . . . page  9
     CONCERT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 10
     CSUNET (CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY NETWORK). . . . . . . page 10
     ISI . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 11
     JVNCNET . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 13
     LOS NETTOS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 14
     MITRE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 14
     NEARNET (NEW ENGLAND ACADEMIC AND RESEARCH NETWORK) . . . page 15
     NNSC, UCAR/BOLT BERANEK and NEWMAN, INC., . . . . . . . . page 15
     NSFNET/ANSNET BACKBONE ENGINEERING. . . . . . . . . . . . page 16
     NSFNET/INFORMATION SERVICES . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 21
     NORTHWESTNET  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 23
     PREPnet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 23
     SAIC. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 24
     SESQUINET . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 25
     SRI . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 25
     SURANET . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 26
     UCL . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 26

  DIRECTORY SERVICES ACTIVITIES

     DIRECTORY SERVICES MESSAGE  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 29
     IETF OSIDS & DISI WORKING GROUPS. . . . . . . . . . . . . page 29
     FOX - FIELD OPERATIONAL X.500 PROJECT . . . . . . . . . . page 29
        ISI. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 30
        SRI. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 30
     PSI DARPA/NNT X.500 PROJECT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 30
     PSI WHITE PAGES PILOT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 31

  CALENDAR OF EVENTS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 32





Cooper                                                          [Page 2]

Internet Monthly Report                                    February 1992



IAB MESSAGE

     No progress to report this month.

     Bob Braden (Braden@ISI.EDU)

INTERNET RESEARCH REPORTS
-------------------------

     AUTONOMOUS NETWORKS
     -------------------

        The ANRG is still in the process of reorganizing.

        Deborah Estrin (Estrin@USC.EDU)

     END-TO-END SERVICES
     -------------------

        No progress to report this month.

        Bob Braden (Braden@ISI.EDU)

     RESOURCE DISCOVERY AND DIRECTORY SERVICE
     ----------------------------------------

        In prepartion for a meeting we will hold in March, we have been
        discussing ideas about supporting resource discovery by building
        resource content summaries and distributing/caching these
        summaries according to network topology.  The goal is to allow
        the information to be efficiently searched throughout a wide
        area network.  At the meeting we will discuss techniques for
        distribution and caching, and ways we can explore these ideas in
        the context of the various measurement and prototyping efforts
        being carried out by the group members.

        Mike Schwartz@latour.cs.colorado.edu.

INTERNET ENGINEERING REPORTS
----------------------------

                   IETF MONTHLY REPORT for February, 1992

     1. The next IETF meeting will be held at the Hyatt Islandia in
        San Diego from March 16-20, 1992. The Sunday night reception
        will begin at 6:30 on March 15th.




Cooper                                                          [Page 3]

Internet Monthly Report                                    February 1992


        The summer meeting of the IETF has been scheduled for
        July 13-17 in the Boston/Cambridge area, with the Sunday night
        registration-reception being held July 12th. Details will be
        provided in a future Internet Monthly report.

     2. The IESG received seven requests to approve the publication
        of the following Internet Drafts:

          1. Character MIBs to Proposed Standard
          2. SNMP Security to Proposed Standard
          3. Frame Relay MIB to Proposed Standard
          4. TCP Extensions for High Performance to Proposed Standard
          5. PPP LCP to Proposed Standard
          6. PPP Authentication to Proposed Standard
          7. PPP Link Quality Monitoring to Proposed Standard

        Last call notifications were sent to the IETF mailing list by
        the IESG Secretary. Following the two week Last Call period,
        the IESG will add these items to its meeting agenda.

     3. The IESG made the following recommendations to the IAB during
        the month of February, 1992:

        a. IP Forwarding Table MIB <draft-ietf-rreq-forwarding-04> be
           published as a Proposed Standard. A subsequent version of the
           document, -05, was distributed by the authors, and that is
           version being evaluated by the IAB.

        b. Definitions of Managed Objects for the SIP Interface Type
           <draft-ietf-snmp-smdssipmib-06> be published as a Proposed
           Standard.

        c. Definitions of Managed Objects for RS-232-like Hardware Devices
           <draft-ietf-charmib-rs232like-03> be published as a Proposed
           Standard.

        d. Definitions of Managed Objects for Parallel-printer-like
           Hardware Devices <draft-ietf-charmib-parallelprinter-02>
           be published as a Proposed Standard.

        e. Definitions of Managed Objects for Character Stream Devices
           <draft-ietf-charmib-charmib-02> be published as a Proposed
           Standard.

        f. Building a Network Information Services Infrastructure
           <draft-ietf-nisi-infrastructure-00> be published as a FYI
           Informational RFC.




Cooper                                                          [Page 4]

Internet Monthly Report                                    February 1992


        Additionally, the IESG reviewed the Dynamic Link Control Protocol
        (DCNL) and informed the RFC Editor that they had no objection to
        its publication as an experimental RFC.

     4. The following Working Group was created during the month of
        of February:

             Token Ring Remote Monitoring (trmon)

     5. Seventeen Internet Draft Actions were taken between
        February 1 and 29, 1992:

      (Revised draft (o), New Draft (+) )

        WG             I-D Title  <Filename>
      ------       -------------------------------------------------------
      (charmib)  o Definitions of Managed Objects for RS-232-like Hardware
                   Devices
                                  <draft-ietf-charmib-rs232like-04.txt>
      (iplpdn)   o Management Information Base for Frame Relay DTEs
                                  <draft-ietf-iplpdn-frmib-06.txt>
      (netdata)  o Network Database Protocol
                                  <draft-ietf-netdata-netdata-02.txt>
      (pppext)   o The Point-to-Point Protocol for the Transmission of
                   Multi-Protocol Datagrams Over Point-to-Point Links
                                  <draft-ietf-pppext-lcp-03.txt>
      (822ext)   o Mnemonic Character Sets
                                  <draft-ietf-822ext-mnemonics-03.txt>
      (822ext)   o Character Mnemonics and Character Sets
                                  <draft-ietf-822ext-charsets-04.txt>
      (hubmib)   o Definitions of Managed Objects for IEEE 802.3
                   Repeater Devices
                                  <draft-ietf-hubmib-mib-01.txt>
      (rreq)     o IP Forwarding Table MIB
                                  <draft-ietf-rreq-forwarding-05.txt>
      (x25mib)   o SNMP MIB extension for IP over X.25
                                  <draft-ietf-x25mib-ipox25mib-01.txt>
      (x25mib)   o SNMP MIB extension for LAPB
                                  <draft-ietf-x25mib-lapbmib-01.txt>
      (x25mib)   o SNMP MIB extension for the X.25 Packet Layer
                                  <draft-ietf-x25mib-x25packet-01.txt>
      (netfax)   o A File Format for the Exchange of Images in
                   the Internet
                                  <draft-ietf-netfax-netimage-03.txt>
      (none)     o Multiprotocol Interconnect on X.25 and ISDN in the
                   Packet Mode
                                  <draft-ietf-iplpdn-x25_isdn-01.txt>




Cooper                                                          [Page 5]

Internet Monthly Report                                    February 1992


      (tcplw)    o TCP Extensions for High Performance
                                  <draft-ietf-tcplw-tcpext-02.txt>
      (netdata)  o Network Database Implementation Information
                                  <draft-ietf-netdata-implement-01.txt>
      (pppext)   o PPP Link Quality Monitoring
                                  <draft-ietf-pppext-lqm-01.txt>
      (none)     o IP and ARP on HIPPI
                                  <draft-renwick-hippilan-01.txt>

     6) Three RFC's based on IETF WG activity were produced during the
        month of February, 1992


       RFC  Status WG        Title
     ------- -- --------   -------------------------------------------
     RFC1298  I  (snmp)    SNMP over IPX
     RFC1302  I  (nisi)    Building a Network Information Services
                           Infrastructure
     RFC1304  PS (snmp)    Definitions of Managed Objects for the SIP
                           Interface Type

     Phill Gross (pgross@NRI.RESTON.VA.US)





























Cooper                                                          [Page 6]

Internet Monthly Report                                    February 1992


INTERNET PROJECTS
-----------------

BARRNET
-------

     In February, BARRNet connected one new T1 site, upgraded one 9600bps
     site to 56kbps and one 56kpbs site to T1, bringing the total connected
     membership to 116. Also in February BARRNet deployed cisco beta
     release 9.0 on three "core" routers, putting OSPF into limited
     operational use on the cisco platform.

     Paul Baer (baer@jessica.stanford.edu0

BOLT BERANEK AND NEWMAN INC.
----------------------------

     Inter-Domain Policy Routing

     During the month of February, we completed extensive testing of the
     IDPR configuration database software for the "gated" version of IDPR.
     We have also been communicating with members of the Internet community
     interested in using IDPR, in preparation for getting IDPR
     implementations into the Internet.  Our objectives in introducing IDPR
     to the Internet are:

     (1) To satisfy existing needs for policy-based routing in the Internet.
     (2) To gain field experience with IDPR in order to determine what must
         be improved.
     (3) To prepare for a multiple-site Internet demo of IDPR, with real
         applications and real networks.

     If you are interested in using IDPR, please contact
     msteenst@bbn.com.

     Jil Westcott (westcott@BBN.COM)

CERFNET
-------

     On Friday, February 28 CERFnet announced a new service offering,
     Dial n Cerf USA, which allows 800 number dial-in access to CERFnet
     accounts from around the country. Dial n Cerf USA has the same low
     installation and monthly costs as CERFnet's other dial-in
     offerings, and has a set hourly cost which is the same no matter
     what your location in the country.





Cooper                                                          [Page 7]

Internet Monthly Report                                    February 1992


     CERFnet is using a new Autonomous System number - AS 1740. CERFnet
     is now using the T3 backbone for traffic destined for other
     networks which are also using the T3. All other traffic remains on
     the T1.

     During February CERFnet saw the formation of a new department to
     serve its users, Network Information Services. New staff members in
     this group include Susan Calcari, Director, Network Information
     Services, and Dan Matzke, Network Information Consultant.

     The first CERFnet User Group meeting was held and approximately 75
     users attended from university, research, and commercial
     organizations. The purpose of the User Group is to provide a formal
     conduit for communication between CERFnet and its users for
     planning regional and national Internet services and to facilitate
     communication among CERFnet users.

     Susan Calcari (calcaris@cerf.net)

CIX (COMMERCIAL INTERNET EXCHANGE)
----------------------------------

     The following report outlines CIX-WEST usage for the month of
     February, 1992.

     CIX        In                             Out
     Member        Octets   Packets  Errors     Octets     Packets  Errors
     --------- ----------------------------  -----------------------------
     AlterNet  37691705876  91618153  13872  14818226055   79668885     0
     CERFnet   22802486844  93674766  26550  27221367284   81745577     0
     PSINet    21014273559  90867579      0  39446236007  115173939     0

     Starting: Jan 31 1992 at 23:47
     Ending: Feb 29 1992 at 23:36
     SNMP Polling Intervals: 2747
     SNMP Polling Frequency: 15 minutes

     In - traffic entering the CIX from the CIX member network
     Out - traffic exiting the CIX into the CIX member network
     -----

     At the present time, approximately 550 networks within AlterNet,
     CERFNet, and PSINet are using the CIX-WEST.








Cooper                                                          [Page 8]

Internet Monthly Report                                    February 1992


     A complete list of networks accessible via the CIX is available via
     anonymous FTP from cix.org in the file cix.nets.  The current
     revision of this list is: 3-MAR-1992.

     Send mail to info@cix.org for information regarding the CIX.

     Mark Fedor (fedor@psi.com)

CONCERT
-------

     Development is underway on a trouble ticket system to be used by
     the CONCERT NOC in reporting and tracking network related problems.
     We are trying to incorporate as many of the RFC 1297 features as
     possible, and to follow the ticket handoff procedures coming out of
     the IETF UCP working group.  The system is being developed from
     publicly available tools (e.g., it uses the postgres database
     management system from Berkeley), with the intention that it will
     be made available to other NOCs.  A prototype is now being
     evaluated at the CONCERT NOC.

     CONCERT has upgraded its OSI test machines, with the installation
     of ISODE 7.0, PP 6.0, and SunNET 7.0.  When combined, these
     packages provide full dual-stack (CLNP and RFC-1006) support for
     the OSI applications X.400 (e-mail), X.500 (white pages), FTAM
     (file transfer) and VT (virtual terminal).

     A two day workshop on Wide Area Information Servers (WAIS) was held
     at MCNC early in February. It was jointly sponsored by NSF and
     CONCERT and was attended by about 75 people from around the
     country.

     Joe Ragland represented CONCERT at the FARNET meeting in Atlanta.

     Tom Sandoski (tom@concert.net)

CSUNET (THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY NETWORK)
-----------------------------------------------

     CSUnet now has three campuses using Compressed Video over it's
     private T-1 Network (CSUnet).  Those campuses are: Sacramento,
     Dominguez Hills, and Bakersfield.  On January 16, 1992, the Vice
     Presidents of Academic Affairs successfully completed a Video
     Teleconference  between Dominguez Hills and Sacramento using
     compressed 384kbs.

     This spring, CSUnet begins a pilot test with the Sprint Meeting
     Channel.  The Chancellor or any CSU campus with a CODEC will be



Cooper                                                          [Page 9]

Internet Monthly Report                                    February 1992


     able to set up a Video Teleconference to any other CSU campus/site
     or directly to locations on the Sprint Meeting Channel.

     The significance of the pilot is the potential:  1) in that the
     Sprint Meeting Channel will be available for use across the State
     of California via CSUnet; and 2) in that CSU campuses and other
     CSUnet members if equipped with CODEC could meet with organizations
     outside of California.

     Mike Marcinkevicz (mdm@CSU.net)

ISI
---

     GIGABIT NETWORKING

     Joyce Reynolds travelled to Orlando, Florida to the FARNET meetings
     as an invited participant, February 10-12.

     Joyce Reynolds gave an Internet seminar on, "User Services Planning
     in the Internet", on 20 February.

     Bob Braden gave an invited presentation to the DARPA Local ATM
     meeting held at DEC SRC in Palo Alto, CA, Thursday, February 27th.
     The title of his talk was "Resource Allocation - the E2E
     Viewpoint".

     Danny Cohen gave a seminar at the CS dept of UCLA on ATOMIC,
     Tuesday, February 4th.  Danny Cohen gave a presentation at the
     Government/Industry Computing Meeting on: "DoD Force Structure in
     the year 2020 - One Man's Views", Tuesday, February 18th.

     Six RFCs were published this month.

        RFC 1298:  Wormley, R., and S. Bostock, "SNMP Over IPX",
                   Novell, Inc., February 1992.

        RFC 1300:  Greenfield, S., "Remembrances of Things Past",
                   Ziff-Davis, February 1992.

        RFC 1301:  Armstrong, S., (XEROX), Freier, A., (APPLE),
                   K. Marzullo (CORNELL), "Multicast Transport
                   Protocol", February 1992.

        RFC 1302:  Sitzler, D. (MERIT), Smith, P., (MERIT),
                   A. Marine (SRI), February 1992, "Building a
                   Network Information Services Infrastructure",
                   February 1992.



Cooper                                                         [Page 10]

Internet Monthly Report                                    February 1992


        RFC 1303:  McCloghrie, K., (HUGHES), M. Rose, (Dover Beach
                   Consulting), "A Convention for Describing
                   SNMP-based Agents", February 1992.

        RFC 1304:  Cox, T., and K. Tesink, "Definitions of Managed
                   Objects for the SIP Interface Type", Bell
                   Communications Research, February 1992.

     Ann Westine Cooper (Cooper@ISI.EDU)

     MULTIMEDIA CONFERENCING

     On February 18, the IETF Audio/Video Transport working group met
     via a packet audio teleconference that spanned three continents and
     16 timezones.  At least 24 people participated from 14 different
     locations.  The packet audio was distributed over an IP multicast
     topology spanning 30 network segments.  In addition, 5 sites
     directly connected to DARTnet also shared packet video via IP
     multicast.  A second teleconference with some additional sites was
     held March 5.

     The primary purpose of these teleconferences was to gauge how well
     UDP packet audio will work over an IP multicast topology consisting
     of DARTnet as a transcontinental US backbone plus multicast tunnels
     reaching out to other sites.  The results varied depending upon the
     paths traversed by the tunnels, but on the whole it worked pretty
     well.  For large scale use of packet audio and video, it is clear
     that resource management will be required in the network to provide
     low delay service.

     These teleconferences were also in preparation for a packet
     "audiocast" of the general sessions at the March IETF meeting in
     San Diego.  This first audiocast will be a small-scale pilot, but
     may be expanded for future IETF meetings if successful.

     Steve Casner, Eve Schooler (casner@ISI.EDU, schooler@ISI.EDU)















Cooper                                                         [Page 11]

Internet Monthly Report                                    February 1992


JVNCNET
-------

     I. General information

     A. How to reach us:
             1-800-35-TIGER  (from anywhere in the United States)
             by e-mail
                     NOC:  noc@jvnc.net
                     Service desk:  service@jvnc.net
             by mail:  U.S. mail address:
             Princeton University
             B6 von Neumann Hall
             Princeton, NJ  08544
             (Director: Sergio Heker)
     B.  Hours
             NOC:  24 hours/day, seven days a week
             Service desk:  9:00 to 5:00 pm, M - F (except holidays)
     C.  Other info available on-line from NICOL
             Telnet to nicol.jvnc.net.
             Login ID is nicol and no password.

     II.   New Information

     A. RFCs on-line
             To obtain RFCs from the official JvNCnet repository (two methods)
             ftp nicol.jvnc.net; username:  nicol;  password: <your email
             address>
             RFC automailer
             Send email to sendrfc@jvnc.net.  Subject line is RFCxxxx.
             xxxx represents the RFC number.  RFCs with three digits only
             need three digits in the request.

     B.  Operational information
             JvNCnet availability for January 1992 and February 1992 are
             99.75% and 99.92%, respectively.

     C.  New on-line members (fully operational January 1992)
             Educational Testing Service, Lawrenceville, NJ
             University of Bridgeport, Bridgeport, CT
             Ciba-Geigy Research Corporation, Summit, NJ
             Central Connecticut State University, New Britain, CT
             Science University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan








Cooper                                                         [Page 12]

Internet Monthly Report                                    February 1992


     E.  JvNCnet Symposium on Friday, April 3, 1992
             The next symposium in the continuing series will focus
             on Send Mail, Domain Name Service, and Network News.

             Specific audience:  Highly recommended for network managers
                                 and system administrators.

             Meeting location:  Princeton University, 105 Computer
             Science Bldg.

             Agenda and logistics will be prepared shortly.  For further
             details, please send email to send email to
             "symposium@jvnc.net" or call 1-800-35-TIGER.

     F.  Miscellaneous
             Please stop by the JvNCnet booth at Interop (Washington,DC)
             and say hello......May 20-22, 1992.

     Rochelle Hammer (hammer@jvnc.net)

LOS NETTOS
----------

     Walt Prue attended the first CERFnet Users Group meeting.

     An agreement with Nrad (NOSC) and CERFnet was reached to do BGP
     routing with the NSFNET backbone over the 132.249.16.0 subnet from
     Nrad.  This will need to evolve as this DMZ net changes as CERFnet
     anticipates.  We will want to wait until the AGS+ is installed at
     Nrad so BGP2 may be used.

     Walt Prue (Prue@Isi.Edu)

MITRE CORPORATION
-----------------

     Work on a white paper concerning OSI packet filtering continued.
     It will be published to the IETF NOOP working group list in early
     March.

     Net management tutorials were aided by the introduction of the "Net
     Pet" MIB and agent. The audio-based agent (graphics are coming)
     runs on a Sparc.  Commands can be sent (via SET) to the agent,
     causing a change in mood (seen via GET).  This simple model
     illustrates a MIB-at-a-glance, a feedback loop familiar to all, and
     the concepts of both monitoring and control.

     Walt Lazear (lazear@gateway.mitre.org)



Cooper                                                         [Page 13]

Internet Monthly Report                                    February 1992


NEARNET (NEW ENGLAND ACADEMIC AND RESEARCH NETWORK)
---------------------------------------------------

     NEARnet has grown to 121 members.

     NEARnet has published and distributed the Winter issue of the
     NEARnet Newsletter.

     The February 1992 issue of the electronic bulletin "NEARnet This
     Month" has been distributed.  Past issues of the bulletin are
     available via anonymous FTP at nic.near.net, in the directory
     /newsletters/nearnet-this-month.

     Please note the following correction to last month's entry: the
     directory for the NEARnet This Month bulletin is nearnet-this-month
     and not nearnet_this_month, as previously mentioned.

     Corinne Carroll (ccarroll@nic.near.net)

NNSC, UCAR/BOLT BERANEK and NEWMAN, INC.
----------------------------------------

     Due to a feature article entitled "Applying the Internet" published
     in the February 1992 issue of BYTE Magazine, the NNSC has received
     a tremendous amount of requests for information on the Internet
     Resource Guide and the Network Provider Referral List.

     Online information at the NNSC is available via anonymous FTP and
     also through the NNSC Info-Server, which sends files by electronic
     mail.

     To receive the help file from the Info-Server, send a message to
     info@nnsc.nsf.net with the following text in the body of the message:

             Request: info
             Topic: help

     New or revised documents in the NNSC collection on the nnsc.nsf.net
     machine are:

     A shadow copy of the new NSF Backbone Services Acceptable Use
     Policy.  In the nsfnet directory, the filenames are: netuse.txt,
     (for the text version) and netuse.ps (for the PostScript version).








Cooper                                                         [Page 14]

Internet Monthly Report                                    February 1992


     A shadow copy of the PostScript version of the first edition of the
     "Zen and the Art of the Internet: A Beginner's Guide to the
     Internet", by Brendan Kehoe of Widener University.  In the nsfnet
     directory, the filenames are: zen-1.0.PS and zen.readme.

     Corinne Carroll (ccarroll@nnsc.nsf.net)

NSFNET/ANSNET BACKBONE ENGINEERING
----------------------------------

     Summary
     =======

     The T3 network continues to perform extremely well as it has since
     last November.  During February, we have cut over a significant
     load of traffic from the T1 backbone to the T3 backbone.  Midlevel
     networks that were cutover to use T3 in February include SURAnet
     (at both College Park and Atlanta), NyserNet/PSI, San Diego (SDSC
     and CERFNet), and SesquiNet.  These are in addition to the other
     midlevel & regional networks that have previously been cut over to
     use the T3 system.  We are coordinating with several other midlevel
     networks that we plan to cutover to T3 during the month of March.

     The midlevel networks continue to peer with both the T1 and T3
     networks, and continue to use the T1 backbone to communicate with
     sites that have not yet cut over to the T3 backbone.  This
     minimizes the load on the T1/T3 interconnect gateways in Ann Arbor,
     Houston, and San Diego.  The interconnect gateway load has
     decreased as we have added load to the T3 system.  We are also in
     the process of installing a 4th interconnect gateway at Princeton.

     The total inbound packet count for the T1 network was
     11,253,312,682, up 1.3% from January.  618,694,272 of these packets
     entered from the T3 network.

     The total inbound packet count for the T3 network was
     3,217,861,812, up 71.6% from January. 470,927,893 of these packets
     entered from the T1 network. The number of networks announced to
     the T3 backbone was 2390 as of February 28, up from 1160 at the end
     of January. As of the last day of February, the T3 backbone was
     carrying 30% of total traffic.

     The combined total inbound packet count for the T1 and T3 networks
     (less cross network traffic) was 13,381,552,329, up 10% from
     January.

     Testing of the new RS/960 T3 interfaces has begun on the T3
     Research Network. System and unit testing has been in progress



Cooper                                                         [Page 15]

Internet Monthly Report                                    February 1992


     since January. Deployment of the new technology will begin in mid-
     April, with gradual installation taking place on the nodes at one
     POP at a time.  More details on the new technology, testing and
     rollout plan will be released within the next few weeks.

     Performance on the T1 backbone has not been as good. A number of
     problems have been observed, and this is where a large part of our
     efforts have been focused over the last month. Congestion at NSS 10
     has been minimized by cutover of PSI/NyserNet traffic.  The "DCD
     Waffle" problem has at long last been identified as two separate
     problems, and corrections to these problems are partially deployed
     with the remaining software updates on the research network in test
     phase. The "extra ICMP net unreachable" problem has been corrected
     on the T1 backbone.  A recurrent PSP crash is still being analyzed
     to find a possible RT kernel bug. A routing problem where IS-IS
     link state PDUs were being truncated was identified, having
     occurred when some regionals began announcing over 2000 networks to
     the backbone. A patch to allow up to 2200 networks was made, and a
     new routing daemon that compresses the encoding of networks in the
     LSPs is now in test phase. Finally, the RCP nodes are experiencing
     CPU starvation, as the routing daemon is processing the large and
     growing number of routes learned from the regional networks. That
     problem is being addressed by a temporary workaround which suffers
     a tradeoff for backup capability, the installation of a faster
     processor board in some nodes, and some optimizations to the
     routing daemon.

     T3 Network Status
     =================

     Performance on the T3 network has been very good.  There have been
     reports of intermittent packet loss, but this has been isolated to
     sources outside of the T3/T1 systems.  As we migrate additional
     traffic onto the T3 network we are collecting daily reports on peak
     traffic load, and any packet discards on all CNSS/ENSS nodes in
     order to detect any problems caused by the added load.  We are now
     measuring daily average sustained loads of about 5Mbps across a
     typical CNSS node (all interfaces) with an average packet size of
     about 200 bytes.

     The T3 backbone continues to be very reliable.  There was a
     hardware problem on the backbone CNSS machine at Cleveland that
     resulted in two outages.  We also continue to experience an
     occasional black link on CNSS-CNSS links.  With the redundancy in
     the T3 network, none of these problems have resulted in extended
     outages for any end users. There was also a routing software
     problem with the flooding of external BGP updates between the IBM
     and Cisco routers which we have worked around.



Cooper                                                         [Page 16]

Internet Monthly Report                                    February 1992


     An SNMP monitoring problem proved to be an interesting case.  One
     night the NOC staff observed that the monitor (rover) was reporting
     all circuits on the T3 backbone being down at once, though it did
     not report any nodes themselves as being unreachable. This problem
     was traced to a buffer overflow condition in the internal
     communication between the snmpd and smux.routed programs. It seems
     that the 44th autonomous system was announced to the backbone that
     day, that this caused the data structure that was passed between
     the two programs to overflow the buffer. This caused an SNMP error
     code to be returned to rover, so that it knew the nodes were
     responding but could not get any information on interfaces or
     circuits of any kind. This situation lasted for several hours and
     did not actually disrupt any network activity or affect user
     traffic. It was corrected temporarily by disabling the peering
     sessions with several internal backbone cisco AS's that were not
     being used by any customers, and more permanently by installing a
     new version of the rcp_routed and smux.routed programs.

     T1->T3 Cutover Status
     =====================

     Cutover of traffic began in February as part of the plan begun in
     December with the "stability period". Following that period, a
     number of software enhancements were made to the backbone routers,
     and traffic was cut over one regional (autonomous system) at a time
     beginning in February. The following schedule shows sites that have
     been cut over and indicates a proposed date for new cutovers. The
     Merit staff has been working with the folks at each regional to
     plan the cutover and routing plan.

     Cutovers completed:

     Feb 11: Suranet AS 86 College Park
     Feb 19: PSI AS 174 Ithaca
             SURAnet AS 279 Georgia Tech (Atlanta)
     Feb 20: OARnet AS 690 Columbus
     Feb 25: Sesquinet AS 280 and 114 Houston
             San Diego AS 195

     Cutovers scheduled:

     Mar 11: JVNC AS 97 Princeton
     Mar 18: UIUC AS 38
     Mar 25: Midnet AS 93 Lincoln
     Apr  1: Westnet-E AS 209 Boulder
     Apr  7: CICnet 267 Champaign, Ann Arbor





Cooper                                                         [Page 17]

Internet Monthly Report                                    February 1992


     T1 Network Status Summary
     =========================

     DCD Waffle Problem on T1 Backbone
     =================================

     This problem was difficult to track down. In short, the problem was
     broken down into two parts: 1) short duration DCD outages being
     handled incorrectly by the NSS, and 2) T1 interface card freezes
     not being reset properly.

     --Short Duration DCD Outages

     The Cylink ACSUs on the T1 backbone are configured to drop the DCD
     signal on the interface to the RT when an alarm condition occurs on
     the circuit. The number of allowable alarm conditions per day
     varies with circuit mileage and other issues. These alarms are due
     to errored seconds or out of frame conditions. If the number of
     alarms on a circuit exceeds the threshold for that circuit, MCI is
     notified and takes immediate action to resolve the problem.  The
     original intent on the configuration for DCD transition was that
     the routers could produce a network management alarm when a
     threshold was exceeded so that the NOC could take action. However
     this implementation was flawed. The actual behavior of the router
     was that a logical link outage of up to 2-3 minutes could occur
     even for a momentary DCD/alarm condition. Further, this interval
     was short enough that the NOC would not necessarily notice it since
     it would appear on the problem screen for at most one polling
     interval (less than 5 minutes), and there is a possibility it would
     not appear at all. Thus, the original intent of having the NOC
     notice problems on circuits before the users notice so that advance
     action could be taken was not valid.

     To resolve this, a decision to configure the software to ignore DCD
     transitions was made. This is an interim change, until there is a
     design and implementation of a new system to detect short duration
     circuit alarms. A routing daemon was deployed that ignores signals
     from the T1 driver when DCD fluctuates. A further change to the T1
     card driver in the kernel is being deployed in Build 280, which
     notably protects split-EPSP links from being affected by this
     problem. Full deployment of this kernel was completed the last week
     of February.

     --T1 Interface Freeze Problem

     Due to a known microcode problem on the T1 interface card, these
     cards go into a frozen condition where no traffic is passed, up to
     several times per day. The recovery from this was that a background



Cooper                                                         [Page 18]

Internet Monthly Report                                    February 1992


     process would detect this condition and reset the card when this
     happened. However, after analyzing the script that performs the
     reset, it was observed that the reset did not occur for 1-2 minutes
     after the freeze condition began. This guaranteed a routing
     transition and additional delay before the logical link would be
     useful again.

     A new version of the reset script (known as "ricd") has been
     deployed This version performs additional logging, has a shorter
     time to reset, and also definitively identifies which interface has
     frozen (ie. local interface or remote end). The logging allows us
     to take action to replace a card that has been freezing too many
     times.

     Also in the process of analyzing this problem, a daily internal
     report has been implemented which gives statistics on how many DCD
     and interface reset conditions have occurred on each node. This has
     been very helpful in tracking problems, and we will continue to use
     and enhance this report for generating action items to improve
     performance.

     Congestion at NSS 10 (Ithaca)

     Congestion at NSS10 has been minimized by cutover of PSI/NyserNet
     traffic to the T3 system.  We also replaced the PSP-10-16 node to
     ensure that we were not having any intermittent hardware problems.

     T1 Backbone Circuit Outages

     We recorded an above average number of T1 circuit outages reported
     during February.  The increase in outages was largely due to two
     unrelated fiber cuts in the MCI network during the week of 2/17.

     IS-IS Link State PDU Truncation Problem

     Due to the increasing number of networks advertised by the
     regionals to the backbone, the interior routing protocol data units
     (IS-IS PDUs) which convey this information between nodes, grew to
     the point where they exceeded the maximum packet size supported
     (25KB). The symptom was that routing announcements were truncated
     and reachability information was not consistently conveyed between
     T1 backbone nodes.

     This was patched quickly by deployment of a new rcp_routed daemon
     that allowed a 32KB PDU size. This allows 2200 routes to be carried
     rather than 2000, which buys a few weeks time given the growth in
     the Internet.




Cooper                                                         [Page 19]

Internet Monthly Report                                    February 1992


     A longer term solution is now being deployed. A further enhancement
     to the rcp_routed includes a two phased change to compress the
     encoding of network numbers within the IS-IS PDU. These changes are
     being deployed along with performance enhancements to the routing
     software to prevent the CPU starvation conditions outlined below.

     Routing Control Processor CPU Starvation

     The large number of routes carried in the IS-IS packets on the T1
     backbone caused another problem, namely CPU starvation when the
     routing daemon generates or processes the long PDUs. This situation
     is independent of the amount of traffic on the T1 backbone, and
     will simply increase as the number of networks announced to the T1
     backbone increases.  As long as the T1 backbone is being used for
     backup purposes for the T3 backbone, the T1 must carry these
     routes.

     This problem is being addressed in several ways:

     1) Temporarily eliminate use of T1/T3 interconnect as backup for T1
     sites to reach sites that have cut over to T3. This allows a
     reduced set of networks to be announced to the T1 nodes, and gives
     the RCPs some breathing room. This is clearly not an acceptable
     condition, as it removes the backup capability, but is necessary to
     allow several of the more heavily loaded RCPs to run.

     2) Install faster processor cards ("EAPC") in the RT nodes. There
     are a limited number of these cards available, and they are
     currently being deployed in the RCPs and PSPs in which they are
     needed. RCP-13-1 at Palo Alto was particularly heavily affected by
     these problems.

     3) Deploy the new rcp_routed program described above. This version
     contains code optimizations which should allow more efficient CPU
     utilization.

     Mark Knopper, mak@merit.edu
     Jordan Becker, becker@ans.net

NSFNET/INFORMATION SERVICES
---------------------------

     At the close of February, 1992, 4,775 nets have been configured for
     announcement on the NSFNET infrastructures.  Of this total, 2,390
     nets are configured for T3 announcement, and 1,601 nets are located
     outside of the United States. Venezuela and South Africa are the
     most recent international connections to the NSFNET.  A discussion
     of packet traffic for February on the NSFNET, as well as an



Cooper                                                         [Page 20]

Internet Monthly Report                                    February 1992


     engineering update, may be found in the NSFNET/ANSNET Backbone
     Engineering report to the Internet Monthly Report.

     The NSF Division of Networking and Communications Research and
     Infrastructure has issued The NSFNET Backbone Services Acceptable
     Use Policy.  This statement supercedes the interim acceptable use
     policy previously cited and agreed to by nets configured for
     announcement on the NSFNET Backbone.  The new policy is available
     for anonymous ftp from NIS.NSF.NET as acc-use.ps (a postscript
     version) in the directory CISE. Also available via e-mail query to
     the NIS.NSF.NET server, send mail to

                        nis-info@nis.nsf.net
     with the first line of text (not subject)
                        send netuse.txt

     NSFNET and FARNET will be hosting "The Internet in Action," a
     demonstration booth at National Net '92.  FARNET members and all
     regionals are encouraged to participate in an exhibition of  WAIS,
     gopher, Cleveland FreeNet and other tools to navigate Internet
     resources.  Regional newsletters, users guides, documentation,
     brochures and K-12 materials are desired contributions.  A list of
     materials available for anonymous FTP from regional sites is also
     being compiled for distribution at Net '92.  Contact Laura Kelleher
     (lak@merit.edu), Merit/NSFNET Information Services, for further
     details on how to participate.

     Kelleher and Mark Davis-Craig, of the Merit Technical Support
     Group, attended the Wide Area Information Server (WAIS) Conference
     at MCNC on February 3 & 4.  Elise Gerich and Jessica Yu were the
     Merit Internet Engineering representatives to the NREN architecture
     meeting convened by the FEPG. Gerich also attended the meeting of
     the FEPG in San Francisco, February 25-27.  Eric Aupperle,
     President of Merit Network, Inc. and Mark Knopper, manager of Merit
     Internet Engineering, met with the National Science Foundation and
     NEARNET in Washington, D.C. Ellen Hoffman, manager of Merit/NSFNET
     Information Services, attended the User and Nic Services committee
     meeting which preceeded the FARNET workshop held in Orlando,
     Florida.  Hoffman, Gerich, Knopper, and Dale Johnson represented
     Merit at the FARNET meeting.  Jim Williams has joined Merit
     Network, Inc. as the Associate Director for National Networking.
     Jim is known to the Internet community through his participation on
     the FARNET Board and his leadership at the University of Nevada
     System.







Cooper                                                         [Page 21]

Internet Monthly Report                                    February 1992


     Early registration for "Making Your NSFNET Connection Count," a
     Merit Networking Seminar scheduled for June 1 & 2 in Las Vegas, NV,
     is open.  Donna Cox, NCSA; Art St. George, UNM; Tom Grudner, NTPN;
     and George Brett, MCNC, are among the several speakers who will
     discuss "Navigating the Internet."  Topics in "Network Tools and
     Futures" will be addressed by Ann Okerson, ARL; Linda Delzite,
     NPTN; and Phil Gross, ANS.  Limited scholarships are available.  To
     receive the agenda and registration details, send electronic mail
     to seminar@merit.edu or call 1-800-66-MERIT.

     Jo Ann Ward (jward@merit.edu)

NORTHWESTNET
------------

     On February 20, 1992 NorthWestNet held the first of three training
     sessions for K-12 educators as part of a prototype project co-
     sponsored by the University of Washington, a NorthWestNet founding
     member.  The project involves six schools in Washington and Oregon
     states and is designed to encourage use of the Internet in
     curriculum development, educational reform, and collaboration among
     K-12 teachers.

     Close to 50 educators attended the first class, which covered
     Internet applications such as email, file transfer, Archie, and
     news groups.  The class was taught by University of Washington
     staff from Central Computing and faculty from the College of
     Education.

     NorthWestNet
     15400 SE 30th Place, Suite 202          Phone: (206) 562-3000
     Bellevue, WA  98007                     Fax:   (206) 562-4822

     Dr. Eric S. Hood, Executive Director
     Dan L. Jordt, Director of Technical Services
     Schele Gislason, Administrative Assistant

     Schele Gislason (schele@nwnet.net)

PREPNET
-------

     PREPnet had four new members in February.  Shadyside Hospital and
     Ansoft Corp. will be connected to the Pittsburgh hub via a T1 link.
     Community College of Allegheny County will be connected to the
     Pittsburgh hub via a 56Kbps link.  Feith Systems and Software use a
     dial-up connection to the Philadelphia terminal server.




Cooper                                                         [Page 22]

Internet Monthly Report                                    February 1992


     Tom Bajzek, PREPnet Executive Director, and Tony Zikesh, Bell of PA
     Network Operations Manager, participated in the FARNET "Hardening
     the Regionals" workshop on February 11th - 12th.  Bell of PA is the
     contracted PREPnet NOC.

     Tom Bajzek was reelected as the FARNET Secretary.

     PREPnet NIC (prepnet+@andrew.cmu.edu)

SAIC
----
     SAIC Activities for February

     During the month of February, the integration of the IDPR parser
     with gated was begun.  Removal of the old inter-process
     communication mechanisms was scheduled for later, but in order to
     allow more complete testing of the modules as they incorporate the
     database utilities, it is being resolved first.  A new interface to
     CMTP has been defined that will simplify packet generation and
     significantly reduce the number of memory allocation calls.  The
     new scheme allows for re-use of most message buffers, and preloads
     many of the fields in CMTP headers further reducing copying.

     The MIB has been completed, although it requires a few days of
     editing before a new submission is made.  The solution for the
     representation of policies has been to use the OPAQUE object type.
     This may generate some controversy, however, the alternatives were
     unacceptable.

     Chi Chu continued work on NVLAP, although poor connectivity to DCEC
     and hardware problems on the development host have caused
     considerable difficulties.  Ken Carlberg is continuing work on the
     prototype that uses multicast extensions to CLNP.

     Planned Activities:

     Integration and testing of the VGP module.  We may be able to
     install SNMP management via the SMUX interface in gated.  This will
     provide both an extra debugging tool and allow experimentation with
     the IDPR MIB.

     Robert "Woody" Woodburn (woody@sparta.com)









Cooper                                                         [Page 23]

Internet Monthly Report                                    February 1992


SESQUINET
---------

     Sesquinet expanded to 35 member institutions this month with the
     additions of Advanced Network Technology in Waco, TX, the Prairie
     View A&M School of Nursing in Houston, TX, and Northern Telecom in
     Dallas, TX.

     Sesquinet was moved over to the T3 backbone on February 26 and is
     now routing all traffic over the T3.

     Problem status information is now available by fingering
     noc@sesqui.net.

     Evan Wetstone (evan@rice.edu)

SRI
----

     SRI's Network Information System Center (NISC) updated the RFC
     Index in response to each RFC issued in February.  There were six
     RFCs issued in February 1992.

     The RFC Index contains citations of all RFCs issued to date in
     reverse numeric order.  It's also a quick reference to determine if
     any RFC has been obsoleted and gives a pointer to the replacement
     RFC.

     The RFC Index also supplies the equivalent FYI number, if the RFC
     was also issued as an FYI document.

     Paper copies of all RFCs are available from SRI, either
     individually or on a subscription basis (for more information
     contact nisc@nisc.sri.com or call 1-415-859-6387).  Online copies
     are available via FTP from ftp.nisc.sri.com as rfc/rfc####.txt or
     rfc/rfc####.ps (#### is the RFC number without leading zeroes).

     Additionally, RFCs may be requested through electronic mail from
     SRI's automated mail server by sending a message to mail-
     server@nisc.sri.com.  In the body of the message, indicate the RFC
     to be sent, e.g. "send rfcNNNN" where NNNN is the number of the
     RFC.  For PostScript RFCs, specify the extension, e.g. "send
     rfcNNNN.ps".  Multiple requests can be sent in a single message by
     specifying each request on a separate line.  The RFC Index can be
     requested by typing "send rfc-index".

     The update to the TCP-IP CD-ROM is now available from the NISC.
     The update contains all RFCs issued through Feb. 7, 1992.  New



Cooper                                                         [Page 24]

Internet Monthly Report                                    February 1992


     information, such as Release 7.0 of the ISODE software and source
     code for the X window system (version 11, release 5), is also
     included.  Document files are now compatible with DOS, UNIX and
     Macintosh systems as well.

     Sue Kirkpatrick (sue@NISC.SRI.COM)

SURANET
-------

     Two SURAnet staff members attended the February NSFnet Advanced
     Topics meeting hosted by Merit.

     As part of the changeover to SURAnet's new topology, collocation
     equipment has been installed in 12 MCI Points of Presense.  The
     remaining six collocation sites will be installed during February.

     Two new people have joined SURAnet.  Erik Sherk has joined the
     staff as a Network Engineer and Kurt Lidl has joined the NIC to
     strengthen its technical expertise.

     SURAnet is holding a User Services Meeting in Atlanta on March 9th
     and 10th.  A one day seminar on the Internet is being held in
     College Park on April 20th and a Technical Seminar is planned for
     June.  For further details contact info@sura.net

     Peter Liebscher (plieb@sura.net)

UCL
----

     In Policy Based Routing area, we are liasing with ULCC and the
     JANET IP Service, and hope to be in BGP pilot in RIPE - Tony Bates
     from ULCC is attending RIPE Meetings.

     On a lighter note, we believe GB is now registered.

     In multimedia program, Peter Kirstein has circulated a revised
     European proposal for an infrastructure for Multi-media
     conferencing in the EC, with interworking to the US.

     On a lesser scale in some senses, but broader in others, UCL took
     part in the voice conference with ISI/BBN/DARTNET/OZ/Sweden et al,
     as reported elsewhere by Steve Casner. Problems at UCL may have
     been partly caused by queueing delay variations for IP packets with
     options in some gateways,





Cooper                                                         [Page 25]

Internet Monthly Report                                    February 1992


     The following project in authentication and security is just
     starting at UCL:

                 PILOTING AUTHENTICATION AND SECURITY SERVICES WITHIN
                   OSI APPLICATIONS FOR RTD INFORMATION (PASSWORD)

     COLLABORATORS:
          University College London (Coordinating Partner)
          Cambridge U
          DANET
          E3X
          GMD
          INRIA
          XTEL

     PROJECT SUMMARY

     The project will last for 21 months, with the technical development
     concentrated into the first 15 months, and the last six months
     being for pilots with ever larger numbers of users and sites.

     The project will determine the Security Services required in the
     Research and Technical Development (RTD) community for the
     provision of specific OSI Applications.  The services to be
     examined will include the following: Authentication Services,
     Directory Services, Message Handling Services, and Document
     Handling Services.  By offering a variety of pilot services to the
     user communities, we expect to obtain an understanding of the
     requirements related to data access, data integrity, and data
     confidentiality for RTD Community information.  We aim to
     demonstrate that the pilot services we introduce can be implemented
     within the research user environment without hampering unduly the
     overall openness and usability of the systems, and provide an
     assessment of the usability of the provided services.

     The project aims to demonstrate that a security architecture can be
     identified which allows usage of a common set of security services
     for the above applications.

     The project aims to introduce pilot cryptographic security services
     in some of the sites connected to the European National Research
     Networks.  These should be able to be incremental additions to
     existing services.  To ensure a reasonably open set of facilities,
     we will provide more than one toolkit of security components to
     provide at least the following: RSA Public Key systems, MD4 Hash
     Functions, DES symmetric encryption/ decryption for
     confidentiality, and certificates based on the above.




Cooper                                                         [Page 26]

Internet Monthly Report                                    February 1992


     We will provide Authentication Services using X.509, with multiple
     implementations of this core technology.  The certificates will be
     distributed by X.500 directory services.  We will provide
     implementations of tools to manage a distributed authentication
     service using multiple Certification Authorities with different
     implementations, and cross-certification.  The structure of the
     Certification Services will be provided taking due care of
     potential scaling issues - thus we will liaise closely with US
     activities which are looking at these same problems in the context
     of the intoduction of Privacy Enhanced Mail (PEM) in the Internet.

     We aim to provide a framework for the organisational and
     operational aspects of introducing certain security services within
     the European RTD networking infrastructure.  We propose to
     implement a key distribution scheme, which will be workable for the
     proposed user community.

     John Crowcroft (j.crowcroft@CS.UCL.AC.UK)

































Cooper                                                         [Page 27]

Internet Monthly Report                                    February 1992


DIRECTORY SERVICES
------------------

This section of the Internet Monthly is devoted to efforts working to
develop directory services that are for, or effect, the Internet.  We
would like to encourage any organization with news about directory
service activities to use this forum for publishing brief monthly news
items.  The current reporters list includes:

        o IETF OSIDS Working Group                            [included]

        o IETF DISI Working Group                             [no]
        o Field Operational X.500 Project
           - ISI                                              [included]
           - Merit                                            [no]
           - PSI                                              [no]
           - SRI                                              [included]
        o National Institute of Standards and Technology      [no]
        o North American Directory Forum                      [no]
        o OSI Implementor's Workshop                          [no]
        o PARADISE Project                                    [no]
        o PSI DARPA/NNT X.500 Project                         [included]
        o PSI WHITE PAGES PILOT                               [included]
        o Registration Authority Committee (ANSI USA RAC      [no]
        o U.S. Department of State, Study Group D,            [no]
            MHS Management Domain subcommittee (SG-D MHS-MD)  [no]

Tom Tignor (tpt2@isi.edu)
DS Report Coordinator


IETF OSIDS WORKING GROUP
------------------------

     Not much to report. Will save until March.

     Steve Hardcastle-Kille (s.kille@cs.ucl.ac.uk)


FOX -- FIELD OPERATIONAL X.500 PROJECT
--------------------------------------

     The FOX project is a DARPA and NSF sponsored effort to provide a
     basis for operational X.500 deployment in the NREN/Internet.  This
     work is being carried out at Merit, NSYERNet/PSI, SRI and ISI.  ISI
     is the main contractor and responsible for project oversight.





Cooper                                                         [Page 28]

Internet Monthly Report                                    February 1992


     ISI
     ---

        ISI is currently updating its DSA data so that it conforms
        exactly to our phone listing. This will enable us to
        automatically (programatically) determine differences between
        our EDBs and the phone list, which is updated each month.

        Like so many others, we are also preparing for the IETF
        conference in San Diego.

        Tom Tignor (tpt2@isi.edu)

     SRI
     ----

        No internet-related progress to report this month.

        Ruth Lang (rlang@nisc.sri.com)


PSI DARPA/NNT X.500 Project
---------------------------

     Software to load information from Domain Name System zone files
     into the DIT was completed, and is now undergoing testing.

     Testing continues on the version of the NADF KAN software that
     reflects changes made to the NADF agreements at the last NADF
     meeting.  Some modifications and enhancements have been made to the
     software by PSI, which will be fed back to the authors of the
     software.

     Development was begun on software to generate KAN updates from the
     DIT (this software complements the NADF KAN software). A major
     module of this software is almost complete and will probably be
     ready for testing in the next few weeks.

     An initial draft of the Lightweight Directory Browsing Protocol
     (LDBP) was completed, and has been released for comment by the IETF
     OSI-DS group.

     An initial draft specifying encodings of attribute syntaxes for use
     by the lightweight directory protocols was completed and has been
     released for comment by the IETF OSI-DS group.

     Wengyik Yeong (yeongw@psi.com)




Cooper                                                         [Page 29]

Internet Monthly Report                                    February 1992


PSI WHITE PAGES PILOT PROJECT
-----------------------------

     To provide "local" access to European information, as well as to
     serve as backups, the c=US Master and Slave, cn=Alpaca and cn=Fruit
     Bat are now slaving l=Europe.

     New organizations added to the pilot this month are:

             Rochester Institute of Technology
             Harvard University
             McDonnell Douglas Corporation

     Wengyik Yeong (yeongw@psi.com)





































Cooper                                                         [Page 30]

Internet Monthly Report                                    February 1992


CALENDAR
--------

Readers are requested to send in dates of events that are
appropriate for this calendar section.


1992 CALENDAR

     Mar 2           T1S1, Call Control and Signaling (ISDN, Frame
                     Relay, Broadband ATM)
     Mar 2-6         ANSI X3T5
     Mar 2-6         CAIA '92  8th IEEE Conference on AI Application
     Mar 3-5         ACM CSC, Kansas City, MO
     Mar 9-13        IEEE802 Plenary, Irvine, CA
     Mar 9-13        OIW, NIST, Gaithersburg, MD
     Mar 16-18       Multipeer/Multicast Forum,
                     Orlando, Fl, (mloper@ucf1vm.cc.ucf.edu)
     Mar 16-19       INDC-92 (Info Networks & Data Communication)
                     Espoo, Helsinki, Finland
                     indc92@cs.helsinki.fi, tienari@cs.helsinki.fi
     Mar 16-19       Int'l Zurich Seminar on Digital Comm.
                     Zurich, Contact: schlegel@tech.ascom.ch
     Mar 16-20       IETF, San Diego, CA
                     Megan Davies (mdavies@nri.reston.ca.us)
     Mar 18-20       Computers, Freedom & Privacy II,
                     Grand Hyatt Hotel, Washington, DC
     Mar 23          T1M1, Management and Maintenance (ISDN,
                     Broadband, Frame Relay, etc.), Raleigh, NC,
                     Fujitsu
     Mar 25-27       National Net 92, Washington DC
                     Elizabeth Barnhart (barnhart@educom.edu)
     Apr 6-16        CCITT SG VII    Geneva, Switzerland
     Apr 21-23       ANSI X3S3.3, Mountaon View, Ca.
     May 4-6         ANSI X3T5
     May 4-8         DECUS '92, Atlanta, GA
     May 4-8         IEEE INFOCOM'92, See IEEE Pub., Florence, Italy
     May 11          T1E1,  Physical Layer Interfaces (ISDN, T1,
                     Broadband, etc.)
                     Williamsburg, VA, Bell Atlantic
     May 12-14       Joint Network Conference 3, Innsbruck, Austria
                     (this is the RARE Networkshop - renamed)
     May 13-15       Third IFIP International Workshop on Protocols
                     for High Speed Networks, Stockholm, Sweden
                     Contact: Per Gunningberg, per@sics.se
                         Bjorn Pehrson, bjorn@sics.se,
                         Stephen Pink, steve@sics.se




Cooper                                                         [Page 31]

Internet Monthly Report                                    February 1992


     May 18-25       INTEROP92, Washington, D.C.
                     Dan Lynch (dlynch@interop.com)
     May 19-29       ISO/IEC JTC 1/SC 21, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada
     May 27-29       IFIP WG 6.5 Int'l Conference on Upper Layer
                     Protocols, Architectures and Applications
                     Vancouver, Canada
                     plattner<plattner@komsys.tik.ethz.ch>
                     Gerald Neufeld <neufeld@cs.ubc.ca>
     Jun 8           T1M1, Management and Maintenance (ISDN,
                     Broadband, Frame Relay, etc.)
                     Minneapolis, MN, ADC TElecom
     Jun 8-12        OIW, NIST, Gaithersburg, MD
     Jun 10-11       RARE WG1, tentative-Location unknown
     Jun 11-12       RARE COSINE MHS MGR, tentative-Location unknown
     Jun 14-17       ICC-SUPERCOMM'92, Chicago, IL. See IEEE Publ..
     Jun 15-19       INET92, Kobe, Japan
                     Jun Murai (jun@wide.ad.jp), KEIO University
                     Elizabeth Barnhart (barnhart@educom.edu)
                     "North America Contact"
     Jun 16-18       ANSI X3S3.3, Minneapolos, MN
     Jun 22-25       PSTV-XII, Orlando, Florida
                     Umit Uyar, ATT Bell Labs, <umit@honet5.att.com>
                     Jerry Linn, NIST <linnrj@ECF.NCSL.NIST.GOV>
     Jun 29-Jul 1    Fourth Workshop on Computer-Aided Verification
                     (CAV 92); see Sigact News, Vol, 22 No. 4
                     Montreal Canada
                     G. Bockmann:  bochmann@iro.umontreal.ca
     Jul 6-10        IEEE802 Plenary, Bloomington, MN
     Jul 13-17       ANSI X3T5
     Jul 13-24       ISO/IEC JTC1/SC6, San Diego, CA
     Aug 2           T1S1, Call Control and Signaling (ISDN,
                     Frame Relay, Broadband ATM)
     Aug 16          T1S1, Call Control and Signaling (ISDN,
                     Frame Relay, Broadband ATM)
     Aug 17-20       SIGCOMM, Baltimore, MD
                     Deepinder Sidhu, UMBC
     Aug 18-21       ACM SIGCOMM '92, Baltimore, Maryland
                     <sigcomm92@nri.reston.va.us>
     Aug 24-27       CONCUR '92 -- Third Int'l Conference on
                     Concurrency Theory (Paper deadline March 1, 1992)
                     Rance Cleaveland (rance@csc.ncsu.edu)
                     Scott Smolka  (sas@sunysb.edu)
                     Stony Brook
     Sep 7-11        12th IFIP World Computer Congress
                     Madrid, Spain;  Contact: IFIP92@dit.upm.es
     Sep 14-18       ANSI X3T5
     Sep 21-25       OIW, NIST, Gaithersburg, MD
     Sep 22-24       ANSI X3S3.3, Boston, MA



Cooper                                                         [Page 32]

Internet Monthly Report                                    February 1992


     Sep 28-30       5th IFIP International Workshop on Protocol
                     Test Systems (IWPTS), Montreal, Canada
                     iwpts@iro.umontreal.ca
     Oct 12-16       FORTE'92, Lannion, France
                     Roland Groz (groz@lannion.cnet.fr)
                     Michel Diaz (diaz@droopy.laas.fr)
     Oct 26-30       INTEROP92, San Francisco
                     Dan Lynch (dlynch@interop.com)
     Oct 28-29       NETWORKS '92, Trivandrum, India
                     S.V. Raghavan (raghavan@shiva.ernet.in)
     Nov 9-13        ANSI X3T5
     Dec             ANSI X3S3.3, Boulder, CO
     Dec 6-9         GLOBECOM '92, Orlando, Florida (See IEEE Publications)
     Dec 7-11        DECUS '92, Las Vegas, NV
     Dec 14-18       OIW, NIST, Gaithersburg, MD


1993 CALENDAR

     Mar 8-12        INTEROP93, Wasington, D.C.
                     Dan Lynch (dlynch@interop.com)
     Mar 8-12        OIW, NIST, Gaithersburg, MD
     Apr 18-23       IFIP WG 6.6 Third International Symposium
                     on Integrated Network Management, Sheraton
                     Palace Hotel, San Francisco, CA (kzm@hls.com)
     May 23-26       ICC'92, Geneva, Switzerland
     May-Jun         PSTV-XIII, University of Liege.
                     Contact: Andre Danthine,
     May 23-26       ICC '93, Geneva, See IEEE Publications.
     Jun 7-11        OIW, NIST, Gaithersburg, MD
     Aug 18-21       INET93,  San Francisco Bay Area
     Aug 23-27       INTEROP93, San Francisco
                     Dan Lynch (dlynch@interop.com)
     Aug             SIGCOMM, San Francisco
     Sep ??          6th SDL Forum, Darmstadt
                     Ove Faergemand (ove@tfl.dk)
     Sep 13-17       OIW, NIST, Gaithersburg, MD
     Sep 20-31       ISO/IEC JTC1/SC6, Seoul, Korea.
     Oct 12-14       Conference on Network Information Processing,
                     Sofia, Bulgaria;  Contact: IFIP-TC6
     Nov 9-13        IEEE802 Plenary, LaJolla, CA
     Dec 6-10        OIW, NIST, Gaithersburg, MD









Cooper                                                         [Page 33]

Internet Monthly Report                                    February 1992


1994 CALENDAR

     Apr 18-22       INTEROP94, Washington, D.C.
                     Dan Lynch (dlynch@interop.com)
     Aug 29-Sep 2    IFIP World Congress
                     Hamburg, Germany; Contact: IFIP
     Sep 12-16       INTEROP94, San Francisco
                     Dan Lynch (dlynch@interop.com)

1995 CALENDAR

     Sep 18-22       INTEROP95, San Francisco, CA
                     Dan Lynch (dlynch@interop.com)

-------------------------------
Note:

       T1E1: Physical Layer Interfaces (ISDN, T1, Broadband, etc.,)
       T1M1:  Management and Maintenance (ISDN, Broadband, Frame
              Relay, etc.)































Cooper                                                         [Page 34]
