





~









October 1991


INTERNET MONTHLY REPORTS
------------------------

The purpose of these reports is to communicate to the Internet Research
Group the accomplishments, milestones reached, or problems discovered by
the participating organizations.

     This report is for Internet information purposes only, and is not
     to be quoted in other publications without permission from the
     submitter.

Each organization is expected to submit a 1/2 page report on the first
business day of the month describing the previous month's activities.

These reports should be submitted via network mail to:

     Ann Westine Cooper (Cooper@ISI.EDU)
     NSF Regional reports - Corinne Carroll (ccarroll@NNSC.NSF.NET)
     Directory Services reports - Tom Tignor (TPT2@ISI.EDU)

Requests to be added or deleted from the Internet Monthly report list
should be sent to "cooper@isi.edu".

Back issues of the Internet Monthly Report can be copied via FTP:

     FTP>  nis.nsf.net
     Login: anonymous guest
     ftp> cd imr
     ls
     get IMRYY-MM.TXT

For example, JUNE 1991 is in the file IMR91-06.TXT.






Cooper                                                          [Page 1]

Internet Monthly Report                                     October 1991


TABLE OF CONTENTS

  INTERNET ACTIVITIES BOARD

     IAB MESSAGE  . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  4
     INTERNET RESEARCH REPORTS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  5
        AUTONOMOUS NETWORKS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  5
        END-TO-END SERVICES  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  5
        IRTF RESEARCH REPORT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  5
        PRIVACY AND SECURITY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  6
     INTERNET ENGINEERING REPORTS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  8

  Internet Projects

     ANSNET/NSFNET BACKBONE ENGINEERING REPORT . . . . . . . . page 11
     BARRNET . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 13
     BOLT BERANEK AND NEWMAN, INC.,  . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 13
     CICNET. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 14
     CIX (COMMERCIAL INTERNET EXCHANGE). . . . . . . . . . . . page 14
     CONCERT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 15
     CREN  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 16
     CSUNET (CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY NETWORK). . . . . . . page 18
     FARNET (FEDERATION OF AMERICAN RESEARCH NETWORKS) . . . . page 18
     ISI . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 19
     JVNCNET, NORTH EAST RESEARCH REGIONAL NETWORK . . . . . . page 21
     LOS NETTOS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 23
     MITRE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 23
     NEW ENGLAND ACADEMIC AND RESEARCH NETWORK . . . . . . . . page 24
     NNSC, UCAR/BOLT BERANEK and NEWMAN, INC., . . . . . . . . page 24
     NSFNET BACKBONE, MERIT. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 25
     PITTSBURGH SUPERCOMPUTER CENTER . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 27
     SAIC. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 28
     SAN DIEGO SUPERCOMPUTER CENTER  . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 28
     SURANET . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 30
     UCL . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 31
     UDEL. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 31

  DIRECTORY SERVICES ACTIVITIES

     DIRECTORY SERVICES MESSAGE  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 33
     IETF OSIDS & DISI WORKING GROUPS. . . . . . . . . . . . . page 33
     FOX - FIELD OPERATIONAL X.500 PROJECT . . . . . . . . . . page 35
        ISI. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 35
        MERIT. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 35
        PSI. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 35
        SRI. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 36





Cooper                                                          [Page 2]

Internet Monthly Report                                     October 1991


     NORTH AMERICAN DIRECTORY FORUM. . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 37
     PSI DARPA/NNT X.500 PROJECT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 38
     PSI WHITE PAGES PILOT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 38

  CALENDAR OF EVENTS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 39














































Cooper                                                          [Page 3]

Internet Monthly Report                                     October 1991



IAB MESSAGE

     IAB REPORT

     STANDARDS ACTIONS:

     Since September 1991, the IAB has taken the following standards
     actions, following recommendations of the IESG:

        o  Draft Standard state for BGP,

           RFC 1267:  "A Border Gateway Protocol 3 (BGP-3)"
           RFC 1268:  "Application of the Border Gateway Protocol"

        o  Proposed Standard state for BGP MIB,

           RFC 1269:  "Definitions of Managed Objects for the
                       Border Gateway Protocol (Version 3)".

        o  Proposed Standard state for "The COSINE and Internet
           X.500 Schema".

        o  Proposed Standard state for "An interim approach to use of
           Network Addresses".  This spec concerns an NSAP encoding
           specifically for use with RFC-1006 encapsulation of the
           OSI upper layers.

        o  Proposed Standard state for "Replication and Distributed
           Operations Extensions to Provide an Internet Directory
           Using X.500".

        o  Proposed Standard state for "Multiprotocol Interconnect
           over Frame Relay Networks".

        o  Proposed Standard state for DECNET Phase IV MIB.

        o  Proposed Standard state for Remote Monitor (RMON) MIB.

        o  Proposed Standard state for Inverse ARP.

        o  Proposed Standard state for Bridge MIB.

     Bob Braden (Braden@ISI.EDU)







Cooper                                                          [Page 4]

Internet Monthly Report                                     October 1991


     AUTONOMOUS NETWORKS
     -------------------

        Deborah Estrin and Yakov Rekhter have been working on a unified
        architecture for inter-domain routing that combines the benefits
        of BGP/IDRP-style hop-by-hop routing and IDPR-style source-
        demand routing.  Estrin will present their ideas at the November
        IETF.

        Deborah Estrin (Estrin@USC.EDU)

     END-TO-END SERVICES
     -------------------

        No progress to report this month.

        Bob Braden (Braden@ISI.EDU)

     IRTF RESEARCH REPORT
     --------------------

        The IRTF Research Group on Resource Discovery and Directory
        Service held its first meeting on October 13th.  We are
        currently focusing on defining an architectural framework to
        allow resource discovery related activities to interoperate,
        including:

           - advertising resources
           - discovering the existence of resources (advertised
             or not)
           - locating appropriate instances (e.g., a nearby
             file replica)
           - learning to use discovered resources
           - organizing discovered resources

        Our meeting considered three sets of issues:

           - protocols to support queries between subsystems
           - support for attribute-based searches
           - scalability of replication and distribution mechanisms

        We also discussed possible prototype efforts.

        Michael Schwartz (schwartz@cs.colorado.edu)







Cooper                                                          [Page 5]

Internet Monthly Report                                     October 1991


     PRIVACY AND SECURITY
     --------------------

        The PSRG met at BBN in Cambridge, MA on September 10-12, 1991.
        The middle day of the PSRG meeting was devoted to a PEM Working
        Group meeting, with additional attendees joining the PSRG
        members for that day.

        Most of the PSRG meeting was devoted to continuing discussion of
        Internet security architecture issues, a topic which also was
        the focus for the last PSRG meeting in May at University College
        London.  The thrust of this work is a characterization of what
        security services are required for various classes of
        "applications" within the Internet and an analysis of whether
        these security services are provided by existing (application or
        lower layer) protocols.

        Applications being examined in the context include mail,
        directory services, file transfer, remote login, network file
        systems, interior and exterior gateway protocols,
        teleconferencing, time synchronization, etc.  The security
        services considered include authentication, integrity, access
        control, confidentiality, and non-repudiation.

        This analysis will yield a set of recommendations of protocol
        security facilities to be used to provide security services for
        various applications.  The analsyis also will point out gaps in
        the existing protocol suites, i.e., applications for which one
        or more security services cannot be provided effectively.  We
        hope to be able to generalize from this analysis to make
        security facility recommendations for large classes of Internet
        applications.

        At the PEM WG portion of the meeting there was considerable
        progress on resolving issues related to the form of a
        certification hierarchy for the Internet, initially for use with
        PEM but useable by other applications as well, e.g., X.500 and
        X.400.  The attendees agreed upon a structure in which a root,
        operated by the Internet Society, would certify various Policy
        Certification Authorities (PCAs).  Each PCA would promulgate
        policies for certification authorities (CAs) registered under
        the auspices of that PCA.  The policies and procedures for a PCA
        would be published as informational RFC.

        All certificates issued by CAs will have the property that the
        subject's X.500 distinguished name is subordinate to the
        issuer's distinguished name, thus causing an isomorphism between
        the naming and certification hierarchies below the PCA level.



Cooper                                                          [Page 6]

Internet Monthly Report                                     October 1991


        This architecture supports a variety of policies with regard to
        organization and user certification.  It also preserves the
        ability of any user to determine, unambiguously, the policy
        under which any certificate was issued.

        It is anticipated that PCAs will be established to accommodate
        users wanting high assurance policies (as per the RSADSI model
        of certification), less stringent policies (as per MIT's model
        for student registration), pseudononymous certification (as
        previously accommodated by PERSONA certificates), and
        residential user certification (as previously managed via NOTARY
        certificates).

        On the last day of the meetings, the PSRG discussed the newly
        announced DRAFT FIPS Digital Signature Standard algorithm.  As a
        result of this discussion, the PSRG issued a memo on the
        possible implications of this algorithm, especially with regard
        to use with PEM, to the IAB.  The PSRG did not recommend
        adoption of this algorithm, at this time, for several reaosns:

            - the DSS is quite new, i.e., it does not have a "track
              record"

            - the DSS is a DRAFT FIPS and thus has not yet made it
              through the review and comment cycle mandated for FIPS

            - the DSS satisfies the signature requirement of PEM, but
              does not address the problem of symmetric key distribution

            - the performance of the DSS, in the PEM, context, is
              appreciably worse than the RSA algorithm

            - use of the DSS does not ameliorate export control problems

            - adding new algorithms to the list for use with PEM,
              without grouping the algorithms into "suites" could result
              in lack of widespread interoperability due to the range of
              algorithms employed by PEM (encryption, message hash,
              certificate hash, message signature, certificate signature,
              and key encryption).

        Note that this recommendation is not a condemnation of the DRAFT
        DSS, but rather a suggestion to "wait and see" before making any
        decisions with regard to its adoption in the Internet.

        Steve Kent  (kent@BBN.COM)





Cooper                                                          [Page 7]

Internet Monthly Report                                     October 1991


INTERNET ENGINEERING REPORTS
----------------------------

                    IETF PROGRESS REPORT (October, 1991)

     1.  Let me remind everyone that the next IETF meeting will take
     place from November 18th through the 22nd in Santa Fe, New Mexico.
     The Sunday night reception will be held at the El Dorado hotel
     begining at 6 PM on November 17th. Complete registration and
     logistics information has already been mailed to the IETF mailing
     list.  A preliminary schedule for working group meetings have also
     been mailed to the IETF list.  For copies of this information (or
     for any other question about the upcoming meeting), please mail
     your request to ietf-rsvp@nri.reston.va.us.

     It should be noted that the duration of the meeting has been
     extended two hours to accommodate an additional WG meeting slot
     during the week. Friday morning will be devoted to technical
     presentations. The Area Director reports will be presented from
     1:30 to 3:30 PM Friday afternoon, which will conclude the week's
     schedule.

     2.  There has been a great deal of standards activity during the
     month. The Border Gateway Protocol Version 3 (RFC1267), its MIB and
     supporting documentation were published in a five RFC set. With
     this publication, BGP was elevated to Draft Standard. In addition
     to the WG actions, the Internet Activities Board submitted RFC
     1262, Guidelines for Internet Measurement Activities, The Internet
     Routing Protocol Standardization Criteria was released as RFC1264,
     and SNMP Communications Services was released as RFC1270.

     A number of other IESG protocol recommendations were approved by
     the IAB during the month, and these will be listed in the November
     monthly report.

     3.  As a result of discussions held during the Atlanta IETF
     Meeting, the minutes of IESG meetings are now available via FTP.
     These minutes are located in a distributed directory on the same
     hosts as the ietf and internet-drafts directories. Filenames are in
     the form "iesg.minutes.date" where date is the date of meeting
     (such as 91-08-15 for the August 15, 1991 minutes).

     To retrieve these minutes, FTP into one of the available machines
     with the username "anonymous" and password "guest".  After logging
     in, type

           "cd iesg".
           "get iesg.minutes.91-10-03"



Cooper                                                          [Page 8]

Internet Monthly Report                                     October 1991


     4.  1 New Working Group was formed: Internet School Networking
     (cosn)

     5.  20 Internet Draft Actions between October 1, and October 31,
     1991:

     (Revised draft (o), New Draft (+) )

      WG             I-D Title  <Filename>
    ------       -----------------------------------------------------
    (osids)    o An Interim Approach to use of Network Addresses
                 <draft-ucl-kille-networkaddresses-05.txt, or .ps>
    (rreq)     o Requirements for Internet IP Routers
                 <draft-ietf-rreq-iprouters-03.txt>
    (ahwgipso) o U.S. Department of Defense Security Options for
                 the Internet Protocol
                 <draft-ietf-ahwgipso-ipso-01.txt>
    (spwg)     o Guidelines for the Secure Operation of the Internet
                 <draft-ietf-spwg-secureop-02.txt, .ps>
    (bgp)      o Border Gateway Protocol NEXT-HOP-SNPA Attribute
                 <draft-ietf-bgp-nexthop-01.txt>
    (acct)     o Internet Accounting:  Background
                 <draft-ietf-acct-background-01.txt>
    (822ext)   o Mechanisms for Specifying and Describing the Format
                 of Internet Message Bodies
                 <draft-ietf-822ext-messagebodies-01.txt, .ps>
    (none)     o A User Agent Configuration Mechanism For Multimedia
                 Mail Format Information
                 <draft-ietf-borenstein-configmech-01.txt, .ps>
    (none)     o Mid-Level Networks:  Potential Technical Services
                 <draft-aggarwal-services-03.txt, .ps>
    (none)     o International character support in SMTP
                 <draft-prime-ullmann-smtp-01.txt>
    (rreq)     o IP Forwarding Table MIB
                 <draft-ietf-rreq-forwarding-01.txt>
    (none)     o RIP Version 2 Addition of Subnet Masks
                 <draft-ietf-malkin-rip-01.txt>
    (bgp)      o Application of the Border Gateway Protocol in
                 the Internet
                 <draft-ietf-bgp-usage-01.txt>
    (x25mib)   + SNMP MIB extension for HDLC
                 <draft-ietf-x25mib-hdlcmib-00.txt>
    (x25mib)   + SNMP MIB extension for IP over X.25
                 <draft-ietf-x25mib-ipox25mib-00.txt>
    (x25mib)   + SNMP MIB extension for the X.25 Packet Layer
                 <draft-ietf-x25mib-x25packet-00.txt>
    (netfax)   + File Format for the Transmission of Images in
                 the Internet



Cooper                                                          [Page 9]

Internet Monthly Report                                     October 1991


                 <draft-ietf-netfax-netimage-00.txt>
    (iab)      + The Internet Standards Process
                 <draft-iab-standardsprocess-00.txt>
    (bgp)      + BGP OSPF Interaction
                 <draft-ietf-bgp-ospfinteract-00.txt>
    (appleip)  + Tunnelling AppleTalk through IP
                 <draft-ietf-appleip-aurp-00.txt, .ps>

     6)  7 RFC's Produced between October 1 and October 31, 1991

          (Standard (S), Proposed Standard (PS), Draft Standard (DS),
           Experimental (E), Informational (I) )

       RFC  Status WG        Title
     ------- -- --------   --------------------------------------------
     RFC1264  I (iesg)       Internet Routing Protocol Standardization
                             Criteria
     RFC1265  I (bgp)        BGP Protocol Analysis
     RFC1266  I (bgp)        Experience with the BGP Protocol
     RFC1267 DS (bgp)        A Border Gateway Protocol 3 (BGP-3)
     RFC1268 PS (bgp)        Application of the Border Gateway Protocol
                             in the Internet
     RFC1269  I (bgp)        Definitions of Managed Objects for the
                             Border Gateway Protocol (Version 3)
     RFC1270  I (snmpdir)    SNMP Communications Services

     Phill Gross (pgross@NRI.RESTON.VA.US)
























Cooper                                                         [Page 10]

Internet Monthly Report                                     October 1991


INTERNET PROJECTS
-----------------

ANSNET/NSFNET Backbone Engineering Report
-----------------------------------------

     Summary

     The reliability of the recently expanded T3 backbone has improved
     dramatically over the last month with the resolution to several
     outstanding problems.  In recent weeks, congestion has begun to set
     in on the T1 backbone.  An interim solution to address the T1
     backbone congestion has been deployed while final reliability
     enhancements are being applied to the T3 backbone.  New software
     has been installed on the T1/T3 interconnect gateways to improve
     reliability and performance, while a 3rd interconnect gateway has
     been installed in Houston.  Following the remaining changes to the
     T3 backbone in the coming weeks, we expect to transition more
     networks off of the T1 backbone to the T3 backbone.

     T1 Backbone Update

     The T1 backbone network has recently begun to experience
     congestion.  The point of congestion is at the ethernet interface
     on the E-PSPs.  We have implemented a change at the College Park
     NSS and the Ithaca NSS which uses a spare RT machine on the NSS to
     be used as a second E-PSP.  Both of these E-PSP machines are
     attached to the single shared ethernet which also interconnects to
     regional routers.  The load can be split across the two E-PSP
     systems since different networks can be designated by the
     RCP_ROUTED routing software to use the two different ethernet
     interfaces.  This has been running successfully for a few days at
     College Park and Ithaca.  We plan to replicate this "dual E-PSP"
     configuration at a few additional T1 backbone sites that have
     experienced congestion over the next couple of weeks.  Also, an
     additional T1 connection will be installed between Boston and
     Pittsburgh.

     T3 Backbone Update

     We are pleased to report that the T3 network reliability has
     improved dramatically over the last month.  Most of the major
     problems which followed the installation of the phase-II network
     deployment have been resolved.  These include the observed packet
     loss, the DSU synchronization problems, and most recently, the T3
     interface adapter "black link" problem which has been significantly
     minimized with recent software fixes and hardware configuration
     changes in the routers.  We have turned off ICMP network



Cooper                                                         [Page 11]

Internet Monthly Report                                     October 1991


     unreachable messages which are generated from within the core CNSS
     interfaces which were causing end users to see TCP session
     disconnects.  The ENSS routers continue to generate ICMP network
     unreachable messages on external interfaces.  We hope that this
     "feature" will make internal topology changes less annoying to
     users, at worst causing momentary pauses in data transfers as link
     states change and routing algorithms converge.

     There are a few remaining minor problems involving the routing
     software which involve the periodic loss of internal BGP
     connections between routers.  The fixes to these problems are being
     tested and will shortly be deployed on the production backbone.
     Once these and other changes have been deployed, we will begin to
     transition the remaining networks advertised over the T1 backbone
     to use the T3 backbone.

     The last remaining T3 link installation for the Phase-II plan for
     the T3 backbone upgrade has been completed, from Denver to St.
     Louis. All CNSS sites are now multiply connected. The T3 ENSS
     installation at Lincoln, NB has been delayed

     Safety Net Plan

     The plan to deploy 12 new T1 links on the T3 backbone to
     redundantly interconnect the existing T3 CNSS nodes together is in
     progress.  Routing metrics will be established on the T3 backbone
     so that the T1 links would be used only in the event that multiple
     T3 paths become unreachable between CNSS routers, and no other
     alternate T3 paths are available.  The links and hardware have been
     installed on the production nodes, but have yet not been software
     configured.  This is pending completion of testing. The
     installation is scheduled for completion by mid-November.

     T1/T3 Interconnect Gateways

     A new version of the "rcp_routed" software was deployed on the Ann
     Arbor and San Diego T1/T3 interconnect gateways. This software
     allows the interconnect gateways to run as "hot standbys" for each
     other, so that if one fails the other will take over. It is still
     the case that the switchover will take 6 minutes during a full
     route transition.  We are preparing to split the routes between










Cooper                                                         [Page 12]

Internet Monthly Report                                     October 1991


     multiple interconnect gateways which will improve load balancing
     across the interconnects, and reduce the transition time during an
     automatic cutover.  A 3rd interconnect gateway has recently been
     installed at Houston.  Our current plan is to use the Ann Arbor and
     Houston gateways as hot standbys for each other, with San Diego as
     a manual backup site in case of dual interconnect failure.

     Jordan Becker (becker@NISC.JVNC.NET), Advanced Network & Services Inc.
     Mark Knopper (mak@merit.edu), Merit Network, Inc.

BARRNET
-------

     The U.S. Forest Service Pacific Southwest Research Station became
     BARRNet's 100th connected member in October, joining with a 56kbps
     connection. Two additional sites were connected at 56kbps, bringing
     the total BARRNet connectedmembership to 102. BARRNet also provided
     the Internet connectivity for the Interop 91 trade show in San Jose
     October 7-11. Interop is the largest trade show for users and
     providers of internetworking equipment.

     BARRNet announced in October a new Port-only service, under which a
     member may provide their own BARRNet-approved equipment at their
     site to connect to a port at a BARRNet hub running PPP. Previously
     all equipment had to be BARRNet provided. BARRNet also announced a
     plan to deploy routers manufactured by Network Application
     Technology to member sites, to further lower the cost of connecting
     with BARRNet-provided equipment.

     by Paul Baer <pbaer@carcoar.Stanford.EDU>

BOLT BERANEK AND NEWMAN INC.
----------------------------

     ST Conferencing

     There were a total of 21 video conferences and demonstrations as
     well as one four-day SIMNET exercise during September.  Two
     conferences included four sites, three included three, and the
     remaining 16 were point to point.  The DWS project sponsored about
     one-third of the conferences, making good use of the second
     conferencing site at BBN.  Conferences were held for discussions in
     the following areas: DWS, AWSSIMS, PSRG, and the Fatpipe OMG.  The
     expected reconnection of Ft.  Leavenworth as a TWB conferencing
     site did not occur in October, because the T1 tail circuit to the
     TWB was not yet available.

     Jil Westcott <westcott@BBN.COM>



Cooper                                                         [Page 13]

Internet Monthly Report                                     October 1991


CICNET
------

     This report covers CICNet activities for both Sept. and Oct. 1991.
     During the month of September CICNet began the process of a bid
     solicitation to reengineerits backbone and develop new NOC
     services.  A key component of this process wasa Technical Board
     meeting held in Reaston, Virginia on Sept. 12 & 13. This meeting
     included an indepth review of current CICNet operations, associated
     costs, and analysis and recommendations by Technical Board. The
     meeting also included a presentation by MCI and a visit to their
     East Coast Network Operations Center.  During Sept. CICNet staff
     members met with the CIC Telcom Directors and the CIC Library
     Automation Directors to discuss issues of mutual interest.

     During October the bid solicitation process continued with
     presentations by four bidders to a Technical Board committee
     charged with making bid recommendations to the CICNet Board of
     Directors.  CICNet also held the second meeting of the Network
     Information Resources Committee (NIRCOMM).  This committee is
     charged with building an environment within CICNet which provides
     for effective and efficient access to the many information
     resources located at CICNet member sites and elsewhere.  The
     Committee is composed of individuals from CICNet member sites
     working is a variety of areas, including library automation and
     acquisition, user support, campus wide information system
     development and support, and network development.  At the October
     NIRCOMM meeting Ameritech and NOTIS Systems, Inc. gave
     presentations on current activities and strategic directions.

     by John Hankins <hankins@cic.net>

COMMERCIAL INTERNET EXCHANGE (CIX)
----------------------------------

     The following report outlines CIX-WEST usage for the
     month of October, 1991.

CIX        In                                  Out
Member     Octets       Packets   Errors      Octets     Packets  Errors
---------  -----------------------------  ------------------------------
AlterNet   35597608609  96300940     399   13042811490  72440584     0
CERFnet    19454796525  81325425     211   26492024413  83300747     0
PSINet     19413907185  89331631    1127   34998709405  111714642    0

     Starting: Sep 30 1991 at 23:53
     Ending: Oct 31 1991 at 23:45
     SNMP Polling Intervals: 2840



Cooper                                                         [Page 14]

Internet Monthly Report                                     October 1991


     SNMP Polling Frequency: 15 minutes

     In - traffic entering the CIX from the CIX member network
     Out - traffic exiting the CIX into the CIX member network

     At the present time, approximately 400 networks within AlterNet,
     CERFNet, and PSINet are using the CIX-WEST.

     A complete list of networks accessible via the CIX is available via
     anonymous FTP from cix.org in the file cix.nets.  The current
     revision of this list is: 29-OCT-1991.

     Send mail to info@cix.org for information regarding the CIX.

     Mark Fedor (fedor@psi.com)

CONCERT
-------

     We had one new 56kbps connection added during the past month,
     bringing the total number of connected institutions to 34.  A
     proposal was submitted to the NSF for funding to connect eight
     additional North Carolina universities and colleges.

     We have recently started on a project to provide CONCERT's first
     production T3 link. The T3 circuit will link the FDDI backbone at
     the North Carolina State University with the FDDI network
     connecting the CONCERT NOC and the North Carolina Supercomputing
     Center. The transmission is via private microwave, with DSUs
     converting between the DS3 signal and the high-speed serial
     interface provided by Cisco AGS+ routers. Testing is currently
     underway, and the link should be operational within the next couple
     of months.

     A Spectracom Netclock/2 WWVB receiver clock was brought on-line so
     that CONCERT could provide a stratum 1 NTP timeserver within our
     mid-level network.

     Alan Clegg helped staff the OSI Connectivity demonstration at
     Interop.  The CONCERT network provided end systems for the
     demonstration. X.400, X.500, vt and ftam were provided by two
     systems at CONCERT.  Connectivity was excellent, limited only by
     the intermittent failure of the shownet.

     The Communications Research group is activily studying applications
     of a local area HiPPI network at the North Carolina Supercomputing
     Center (NCSC).  The HiPPI network interconnects a Cray Y-MP 8/464,
     Convex C220, IBM 3090, Maximum Strategies Disk Array, an Ultranet



Cooper                                                         [Page 15]

Internet Monthly Report                                     October 1991


     1000 Hub, and several SUN4/470 workstations.

     To study the performance of this network, a HiPPI Link Data
     Analysis System (HILDA) has been developed.  This system consists
     of a single board that plugs into the VME bus of a SUN4
     workstation.  The HILDA hardware and software provide an array of
     functions for measuring and testing this network including:

        *  Real time analysis of network traffic
        *  Real time error insertion
        *  Statistical analysis of upper layer protocol functions
        *  HiPPI network interface for a SUN4
        *  Network stress testing analysis

     At this point, all of the hardware and software design has been
     completed.  We are starting to measure live traffic over the
     network.  We are also using the HILDA system as an high speed
     network interface to the CRAY-YMP.  When used in such applications
     as FTP, we have acheived data rates as fast as 160Mbps from the
     Cray to the SUN4 workstation. We have acheived FTP data rates as
     fast as 16Mbps from the workstation to the Cray.

     by Tom Sandoski <tom@concert.net>

CREN, CORPORATION FOR RESEARCH AND EDUCATIONAL NETWORKING
---------------------------------------------------------

     BITNET Node and Gateway Requirements Specified

     Acting on the recommendations of its Technical Advisory Committee
     (previously BITNET Working Group), the CREN Board has established
     minimum requirements for BITNET nodes and for the official INTERBIT
     gateways between BITNET and the Internet that belong to members of
     CREN.  This action was taken in response to increasing concerns
     about mail problems on the Internet caused by inconsistencies in
     addressing and error handling of mail gatewayed between the two
     networks.

     *  All BITNET nodes must support the POSTMASTER and POSTMAST mail
        ID's for local delivery of messages to a human who will follow
        up to correct error conditions.  This formalizes what has long
        been an unofficial requirement for BITNET participants.  Support
        of the shorter POSTMASTER ID is necessary for those systems
        which are limited to eight-character user-names and mail ID's.

     *  BITNET nodes which communicate with the Internet via the
        official INTERBIT gateways must use a BSMTP-compliant mailer,
        in order to correctly handle incoming as well as outgoing mail



Cooper                                                         [Page 16]

Internet Monthly Report                                     October 1991


        with domain-style addresses and proper headers (see below for
        examples). This action was a compromise, allowing BITNET nodes
        which need only to communicate with other BITNET nodes to
        operate without a null mailer, in order not to unduly burden
        institutions needing such limited services, while simultaneously
        addressing the requirements for effective communications
        between networks.

     *  INTERBIT gateways must forward mail only to and from BITNET
        nodes with BSMTP-compliant mailers, as soon as the software
        can be readied to make that possible.  They will use the node's
        "servers" tag in BITEARN NODES and its derivative files to
        determine if the node has proper mailer software.

     *  The re-writing of addresses by INTERBIT gateways must comply
        with the standards specified by the CREN Board (see below),
        as soon as modified software is available to allow that.
        Address rewriting is currently not done strictly according to
        Internet rules by most of the gateways. The definition of
        acceptable rules of address conversion should standardize this
        in a way which will also help to reduce looping and other errors.

     *  The Board encourages unofficial gateways also to comply with
        the above requirements.

     The full text of the new standards adopted by the CREN Board is
     as follows:

     A.  All BITNET nodes are required to support both POSTMASTER and
     POSTMAST mail ID's (case insensitive), for receipt of error
     messages and their local delivery to a human capable of taking
     whatever action may be necessary. (POSTMASTER will be truncated to
     POSTMAST upon receipt by nodes without mailers and must be properly
     delivered upon receipt by that account.)

     B.  Every INTERBIT gateway between BITNET and the Internet operated
     by a CREN member or affiliate shall satisfy the following
     requirements, which other gateways are also strongly encouraged to
     meet: 1.  The gateway shall not pass mail to or from BITNET nodes
     that do not use a BSMTP-compliant mailer.  Mail from the Internet
     addressed to a BITNET node without such a mailer shall be returned
     with an error message; any file from a BITNET node without a
     compliant mailer, and any file without proper Internet mail
     headers, even if sent from a node with a compliant mailer, shall be
     returned with error message.  For reference, the following are
     known to be BSMTP compliant: for VM/CMS systems, the combination of
     VM Network Mailer, Release 2, and Rice Mail; for MVS systems,
     UCLA/Mail; for VAX/VMS systems, Jnet plus PMDF; for Unix, UREP.  2.



Cooper                                                         [Page 17]

Internet Monthly Report                                     October 1991


     The conversion of addresses in the mail headers shall: a.  not
     modify apparent Fully Qualified Domain Name (FQDN) addresses in
     gatewaying mail from BITNET to the Internet or from the Internet to
     BITNET; b.  convert BITNET addresses of the form user@FOO or user
     @FOO.BITNET into Internet addresses of the form
     user%FOO.BITNET@gateway.domain, when sending mail from BITNET onto
     the Internet; c.  convert Internet addresses of the form
     user%FOO.BITNET@gateway.domain into BITNET addresses of the form
     user@FOO.BITNET, when sending mail from the Internet onto BITNET;

     d.  not convert or pass into the Internet any mail with BITNET
         addresses containing exclamation marks in the "user" field,
         as these are ill-defined upon conversion.

     The significance of the word "apparent" in B.2.a is that gateways
     are not expected to verify the actual address, but only its form.

     CREN, the Corporation for Research and Educational Networking, is
     the parent corporate structure for BITNET, the United States part
     of the global network consisting of BITNET and its Cooperating
     Networks.

     by Jim Conklin <conklin@bitnic.educom.edu>

CSUNET (The California State University Network)
-----------------------------------------------

     We upgraded CSU San Bernardino to T-1 and installed a StrataCom IPX
     multiplexer for instructional video and data.

     Two-way instructional video is now productional between CSU
     Sacramento, CSU Fresno, and CSU Bakersfield.  This week CSU San
     Bernardino begins live video production.

     The Los Angeles Community College District has been added to
     CSUnet.  LACCD will use CSUnet to gain access to the CSU campuses
     educational resources and to the Internet.

     Mike Marcinkevicz (mdm@CSU.net)

FARNET
------

     CSUnet (the California State University Network) and CONCERT
     (Communications for NC Education, Research and Technology) are the
     newest members of FARNET.  FARNET now has 30 members, including:





Cooper                                                         [Page 18]

Internet Monthly Report                                     October 1991


             State networks                   14
             Regional (multi-state) networks   7
             National nets                     3
             Supercomputer nets                3
             Canadian provincial nets          1
             University campuses               1
             Local networks                    1

     FARNET delivered its recommendations regarding inter-regional
     connectivity in the next generation of the NSFNET to NSF on
     November 1.  Copies of the text are publicly available for FTP from
     host nic.cerf.net, directory farnet, subdirectory farnet_docs,
     filename nsf-backbone-rec.

     The next meeting of FARNET will be held in Santa Fe, NM, on Nov.
     18-19.  The topic is "Improving End-to-End Reliability in the
     Internet: Hardening the Network." The winter meeting is tentatively
     scheduled for Feb. 11-12 in Orlando, FL.  Topic: Commercialization
     of the Internet.

     Laura Breeden (breeden@NIC.NEAR.NET

ISI
---

     GIGABIT NETWORKING

     INFRASTRUCTURE

     Presentation: "User Services Planning in the Internet".  RARE WG3
     (Association of European Research Networks) Meetings Directory
     Services and User Services.  September 28th - October 3rd, 1991 -
     Zurich, Switzerland.  Provided demonstrations on BBN's "Tour of the
     Internet" and UCDavis' "Mining the Internet".

     Session Leader: "Internet User Services Session" (10/9/91)
     Session Leader: "Internet User Services Birds of a
        Feather" (10/10/91)
     Interop '91, October 7th - 11th 1991 - San Jose, California.

     Presentation on: "Internet School Networking".  California Internet
     Federation Meeting.  October 21st, 1991.  San Ramon, California.

     Joyce Reynolds (jkrey@ISI.EDU)







Cooper                                                         [Page 19]

Internet Monthly Report                                     October 1991


     Eight RFCs were published this month.

        RFC 1262:  Vinton G. Cerf, "Guidelines for Internet Measurement
                   Activities", CNRI, October 1991.

        RFC 1263:  O'Malley, S., and L. Peterson, "TCP Extensions
                   Considered Harmful", University of Arizona,
                   October 1991.

        RFC 1264:  Hinden, R., "Internet Engineering Task Force
                   Internet Routing Protocol Standardization Criteria",
                   BBN, October 1991.

        RFC 1265:  Y. Rekhter, (IBM)  Hinden, R., (BBN), "BGP
                   Protocol Analysis", October 1, 1991.

        RFC 1266:  Y, Rekhter, "Experience with the BGP Protocol",
                   (IBM), October 1, 1991.

        RFC 1267:  Lougheed, K., (CISCO), Y. Rekhter (IBM), "A Border
                   Gateway Protocol 3 (BGP-3)", October 1991.

        RFC 1268:  Rekhter, Y., (IBM), P. Gross, (ANS), "Application
                   of the Border Gateway Protocol in the Internet",
                   October 1991.

        RFC 1269:  Willis, S., and J. Burruss, "Definitions of
                   Managed Objects for the Border Gateway Protocol
                   (Version 3)", October 1991.

     Ann Westine Cooper (COOPER@ISI.EDU)

     MULTIMEDIA CONFERENCING

     We have enhanced the SPARCstation implementation of our real-time
     Packet Video Program (PVP) from the older ST protocol to ST-II (RFC
     1190), and tested it by transmitting packet video across DARTnet
     between ISI and BBN.  PVP uses the socket API provided by BBN's
     kernel implementation of ST-II.  Upcoming will be performance tests
     of the ST kernel under a mixed load of packet audio and video plus
     IP.

     ISI has received from SunLabs two prototype S-bus boards that
     perform frame buffer, video image capture, video window, and video
     codec functions.  These boards, called "DIME", will be used for
     experiments with "personal conferencing" between workstations.

     The TWBnet conferencing system was employed for the first time to



Cooper                                                         [Page 20]

Internet Monthly Report                                     October 1991


     teach a graduate computer science class between USC/ISI and UCL.
     As an aid for this lecture, the Multimedia Conference Control
     program was extended to allow the lecturer to select display of the
     local image on the video monitor instead of the remote image.  This
     is useful for sharing overhead slides on a copystand camera with
     students participating both locally and remotely.

     Eve Schooler, Steve Casner
     (schooler@ISI.EDU, casner@ISI.EDU)

JVNCNET, NORTH EAST RESEARCH REGIONAL NETWORK
---------------------------------------------

     I. General information

     A. How to reach us:

        *1-800-35-TIGER  (from anywhere in the United States)
        *by e-mail:
               NOC: noc@jvnc.net
        Service desk: service@jvnc.net
        *by mail: U.S. mail address:
                  Princeton University
                  B6 von Neumann Hall
                  Princeton, NJ  08544
                  (Director: Sergio Heker)
     B. Hours

        *NOC: 24 hours/day, seven days a week
        Service desk: 9:00 to 5:00 pm, M - F (except holidays)

     C. Other info available on-line from NICOL

        Telnet to nicol.jvnc.net.
        Login ID is nicol and no password.

     II. New Information

     A.  RFCs on-line

         To obtain RFCs from the official JvNCnet repository (two methods)
         *ftp nicol.jvnc.net; username:  nicol;  password: <your email
         address> *RFC automailer. Send email to sendrfc@jvnc.net.
         Subject line is RFCxxxx. xxxx represents the RFC number.  RFCs
         with three digits only need three digits in the request.






Cooper                                                         [Page 21]

Internet Monthly Report                                     October 1991


     B.  Operational Information

         JvNCnet availability for September is 99.92%.
         JvNCnet traffic (input and output packets combined)
         Aug. 1991 :  1,592,886,470
         Sept. 1991:  1,982,000,376

         September's figure represents an increase of 24%.

     C.  New On-line Members

         Fairleigh Dickinson University, Madison, NJ
         Thomas Edison State College, Trenton, NJ
         Glassboro State College, Glassboro, NJ
         Rider College, Lawrenceville, NJ

     D.  JvNCnet Symposium Series

         An opportunity for novice and Internet-experienced users to
         learn more about Internet-reachable applications may be
         just what you are looking for.  The JvNCnet Symposium,
         NETWORK APPLICATIONS, will place Friday, January 24, 1992
         at Princeton University.

         Program speakers will describe useful and interesting
         applications and resources accessible over the Internet.
         Send inquiries to nisc@jvnc.net.

     E.  K-12 Program

         JvNCnet recently initiated a K-12 educational program using
         dial-up connectivity in the State of New Jersey.  The program
         was developed because students and teachers in pre-college stand
         to receive numerous direct benefits including:  electronic
         communication with other students, educators, other educational
         professionals, academicians and corporate scientists worldwide,
         improvement and enrichment of cognitive skills, ability to perform
         independent research and knowledge acquisition,  and building
         computer/technical literacy.  We are interested in hearing your
         views and comments about the K-12 network matrix.  Send email to
         K-12-interest@jvnc.net.

     by Rochelle Hammer (hammer@jvnc.net)








Cooper                                                         [Page 22]

Internet Monthly Report                                     October 1991


LOS NETTOS
----------

     A technical committee meeting was held on the 30th.  This meeting
     was used to discuss technical issues only.  Routing upgrades,
     software upgrades, and hardware upgrades were discussed.  Technical
     policies and procedures were also discussed.  The meeting proved to
     be quite valuable because many new technical representatives
     supporting Los Nettos have joined the network.

     GTE has given us an OK to test, use of a FAX to report T1 outages.
     They are willing to try this method after the beginning of the
     year.  We hope to automate sending of the T1 outaged FAX's with our
     network monitoring system and our e-mail FAX server.

     OSPF routing tests continue.

     Walt Prue (Prue@ISI.EDU)

MITRE Corporation
-----------------

     Walt Lazear and John McGuthry participated in the OSI
     Infrastructure booth at Interop '91.  We had X.500 and FTAM
     available on the Internet for access from the booth.  The
     interoperability testing and routing problems before the show were
     exciting.  The OSI networking at the show, however, is better left
     for war story time.  In addition to Walt and John, Rick Wilder, Ron
     Bennis, Dave Wood, Forrest Palmer, and Chris O'Donnell attended
     Interop.

     Bill Barns, Walt, Forrest, Susan Symington, and Kit Leuder
     presented a briefing and demonstration of managing an internetwork
     to Defense Information Systems Agency managers.  The emphasis was
     on cooperation among operations centers to identify and resolve
     internetwork problems.

     Walt and Mike Fidler are heavily occupied with planning,
     coordinating, and executing a move of 700 people in December to a
     new building.  New lab layouts, operating strategies, and comm
     issues make life interesting these days.

     Walt Lazear (lazear@gateway.mitre.org)








Cooper                                                         [Page 23]

Internet Monthly Report                                     October 1991


NEW ENGLAND ACADEMIC AND RESEARCH NETWORK
-----------------------------------------

     NEARnet has grown to 99 members.

     The OSI CLNS routing over the NEARnet backbone during INTEROP was
     successful.

     NEARnet continues deployment of DECNET for ESNET.

     The fifth NEARnet Technical and User Seminar will be held on
     December 12, 1991 at the Brandeis University Events Center in
     Waltham, Massachusetts.

     The fall issue of the NEARnet Newsletter has been published and
     distributed.

     The ninth issue of the electronic bulletin "NEARnet This Month" has
     been distributed.  Past issues of the bulletin are available via
     anonymous FTP at nic.near.net, in the directory
     /newsletters/nearnet_this_month.

     by John Rugo <jrugo@nic.near.net>

NNSC, UCAR/BOLT BERANEK and NEWMAN, INC.
----------------------------------------

     Change in NNSC.NSF.NET IP Address

     Please note that the Internet Protocol (IP) addresses for the
     NNSC.NSF.NET system have been changed. In the past, there were two
     addresses:

             192.31.103.6
             128.89.1.178

     The 192.31.103.6 address is no longer valid.  Please remove it from
     any configuration files as appropriate.  The NNSC.NSF.NET system
     provides provides ftp access to ietf documents, internet-drafts,
     and a variety of related information for NSFNET users.

     DDN NIC Root Server Files available at NNSC.NSF.NET

     Due to connectivity problems experienced between Internet sites and
     the new DDNNIC, we have made copies of the updated DDN NIC root
     server files available viaanonymous FTP at nnsc.nsf.net.

     INTEROP '91



Cooper                                                         [Page 24]

Internet Monthly Report                                     October 1991


     John Curran of the NNSC Staff participated in the Internet User
     Services Session at INTEROP 91.  The NNSC "Tour of the Internet"
     HyperCard2 Stack was demonstrated at a related BOF session.

     Internet Resource Guide

     The NNSC Staff distributed additions to Chapters 1, 3, and 5 of the
     Internet Resource Guide.

     The Internet: A World of Connections

     The NNSC has published a short introduction and overview of the
     Internet, called "The Internet: A World of Connections".  This
     document is available via anonymous FTP from nnsc.nsf.net, in the
     directory nsfnet.  The document may also be retrieved through
     electronic mail via the NNSC Info-Server.  To receive the file send
     a mail message to: info-server@nnsc.nsf.net, in the body of the
     message type, request: nsfnet, topic: internet-overview.

     Update on NNSC "Tour of the Internet" Distribution

     The NNSC "Tour of the Internet" HyperCard2 stack has been accepted
     into to the Hypermedia and Instructional Software Clearinghouse
     catalogue published at the University of Colorado.  The next issue
     of the catalogue is due to be released next month.

     Updating NSF Network Newsletter Map Site List

     The NNSC Staff began collecting site list information for the
     upcoming issue ofthe NSF Network Newsletter map.  Network managers
     should send their updated list of sites to Alanna MacDonald at
     macdonal@nnsc.nsf.net.

     Corinne Carroll <ccarroll@nnsc.nsf.net>

NSF BACKBONE (Merit)
-------------------

     Total traffic on the NSFNET T1 and T3 infrastructures measured
     11,267,961,959 inbound packets, representing all inbound traffic
     during October 1991 and a 19% increase over September's volume.

     NSFNET T1 infrastructure inbound traffic totaled 10,394,213,694
     packets during October.  This total includes packet traffic
     entering the T1 network from the T3 network.  As of the end of
     October, 3556 networks are announced to the T1 NSFNET, with 1214 of
     this total foreign networks.




Cooper                                                         [Page 25]

Internet Monthly Report                                     October 1991


     T3 infrastructure inbound traffic totaled 1,447,985,015 packets
     during October, including packet traffic entering the T3 network
     from the T1 network.  Networks with announcement to the T3
     infrastructure now number 869.

     Merit Network, Inc., Advanced Network & Services (ANS) and some 30
     networking technology vendors worked in collaboration to provide
     ISO Open Systems Interconnection infrastructure demonstrations at
     InterOp to some 30 networks including five European sites.  The
     Merit/NSFNET partnership, which includes the Merit Network, Inc.,
     Advanced Network & Services (ANS), IBM, and MCI, gave the first
     public demonstration of a prototype implementation of the OSI
     Inter-Domain Routing Protocol (IDRP).  The prototype exchanged OSI
     routing information between three Routing Domains located at the
     InterOp show floor, Merit in Ann Arbor, Michigan, and ANS in
     Elmsford, New York.  IDRP is the final protocol needed to complete
     the OSI Network Layer.  It is currently undergoing Committee Draft
     ballot review in the International Standards Organization.  Susan
     Hares and Dave Katz, both of Merit Internet Engineering, worked to
     define the IDRP protocol and participated in the cooperative effort
     which resulted in OSI demonstrations at InterOp

     The OSI Demonstration Booth also featured X.500 infrastructure and
     interoperability demonstrations.  The Field Operational X.500 (FOX)
     project is a joint endeavor of Merit, ISI, SRI and PSI.  Mark
     Knopper, manager of Merit Internet Engineering, described Merit's
     efforts in the Field Operational X.500 Directory Services session
     and Chris Weider, also of Merit, exhibited Merit's FOX activity on
     the demonstration floor.

     Several other Merit staff attended InterOp in various roles: Glee
     Harrah Cady offered insights from the NSFNET experience in the
     Internet User Services conference session; Cady and Susan Calcari
     participated in the Internet User Services BOF; Bill Norton, John
     Vollbrecht, Brian Cashman, as well as Cady, Calcari and Weider,
     provided discussion at the IBM booth for a new network management
     tool.

     EDUCOM '91 in San Diego was another forum for NSFNET project
     endeavors.  In the "Live Exploration of NSFNET Resources" pre-
     conference session, Susan Calcari of Merit/NSFNET Information
     Services demonstrated online resources of the NSFNET and gave an
     overview of the project and possibilities to twice the expected
     audience.  Calcari also participated in the concurrent session
     "Enhancing Education with NSFNET."  "From NSFNET to the NREN:
     Computer Networking Today and Tomorrow" was the concurrent session
     topic for Steve Wolff, Director of the National Science
     Foundation's Division of Networking and Communications Research



Cooper                                                         [Page 26]

Internet Monthly Report                                     October 1991


     Infrastructure, and Ellen Hoffman, manager of Merit/NSFNET
     Information Services.  Jane Caviness, NSF, Mike Roberts, EDUCOM,
     and Doug Van Houweling, Vice-Provost for Information Technology at
     the University of Michigan, were the featured panelists for a SIG
     review of "Merit's National Activities." Laura Kelleher and Ken
     Horning of Merit/NSFNET Information Services attended the
     proceedings.

     Information services and network resources were topics for
     discussion in other conferences: Kelleher spoke at the University
     of Maine about the NSFNET and its resources, and Horning traveled
     to Pasco, Washington for the NorthWestNet Annual Meeting to present
     an overview of the NSFNET and Internet Tour.  The November 11-12
     Merit Networking Seminar hosted by SURAnet at the University of
     Maryland University Center and sponsored by Merit Network, Inc. has
     been filled to capacity.  Speakers will include Jim Knighton, NASA;
     Donna Cox, NCSA; Ron Larsen, University of Maryland; Jim Fulton,
     UNC; Jonathan Wilkenfeld, University of Maryland; Tom Grundner,
     NPTN/Cleveland Freenet; and John Clement, EDUCOM.  Stephen Wolff,
     NSF, will give the keynote address, and Mike Nelson, US Senate
     Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation, will close the
     session.  Information on the next Merit Networking Seminar,
     scheduled for April 13-14, 1992 in Las Vegas, Nevada, is available
     from 1-800-66-MERIT or seminar@merit.edu.

     Jo Ann Ward (jward@merit.edu)

PITTSBURGH SUPERCOMPUTER CENTER
-------------------------------

     Interop '91, held in San Jose California earlier this month, was
     attended by Gene Hastings, Ken Goodwin and Stephen Cunningham of
     our networking staff.  Ken and Gene participated in a customer
     presentation where both spoke about our experiences with the
     implementation of FDDI.

     Members of our group are also currently working on the network
     design and implementation that will be part of Supercomputing '91,
     to be held in Albuquerque, New Mexico, November 18 - 22.

     New network connections to the PSC and the Internet for the month
     of October include: The Society for Industrial and Applied
     Mathematics, Franklin and Marshall College, Munin Systems,
     Allegheny College, twelve temporary networks to be used at
     Supercomputing '91, and six PREPnet service networks.

     by Stephen Cunningham <cunningham@b.psc.edu>




Cooper                                                         [Page 27]

Internet Monthly Report                                     October 1991


SAIC
----
     SAIC Activities for October

     An experiment was attempted with with MITRE and UDEL to participate
     in DARTNET audio conferences using IDPR.  Unfortunately
     configuration problems with SAIC's nameserver prevented us from
     getting started.  The problem has since been fixed and we will try
     again as soon as possible.

     A new parser for reading address to AD mapping files is nearly
     finished.  This is significant because it uses the BSD4.3 reno
     routing code.  This was seen as a simple way of learning about the
     radix based routing softwre and seeing if it can be easily
     integrated with the IDPR kernel code.  It also makes the mapping
     files more flexible.

     Work continues on modifying the IDPR kernel for the addition of 4.3
     reno routing.

     Planned activies:

     Completion of the IDPR configuration parser and first cut at radix
     based searches in the kernel code.

     Woody Woodburn (woody@sparta.com)

SAN DIEGO SUPERCOMPUTER CENTER
------------------------------

     The NSC HIPPI crossbar switch was delivered to the Center last
     month.  Additional interface cards, plus the requisite cables are
     still awaited.

     As mentioned last month, we linked the UCSD campus FDDI ring to
     SDSC with a CERFnet supplied FDDI "stub" and a Cisco double FDDI
     router.  This connected the rest of campus to the NSC supplied
     FDDI/T3 routers via our production ring and thence to the EDUCOM
     '91 conference the San Diego Convention Center (Oct 16-19.)

     On 16 October, Hans-Werner Braun attended an EDUCOM NTTF meeting,
     held during the conference.  On October 17, Braun and Kim Claffy
     attended a breakfast meeting to further discuss NREN objectives
     with Bob Aiken, George Strawn and Steve Wolff of NSF and Peter Ford
     of LANL.

     Braun met with Steve Wolff on October 17 to further discuss general
     networking issues, and met with George Strawn on October 18 on



Cooper                                                         [Page 28]

Internet Monthly Report                                     October 1991


     matters related to the NSFNET.

     During the month the Sequoia network researchers at UCSD conducted
     studies of the Internet response time between various sites in
     Calif.  Gerard Newman & Tom Hutton of SDSC assisted them with
     routing modifications, etc. as needed.

     Braun particpated in two IAB conference calls on October 2 and
     October 24, as well as attending the IAB meeting in San Jose on
     October 10, during the Interop conference (October 7-10).

     On October 9, also during InterOp, Braun and Claffy met with Bob
     Aiken, NSF Programming Director for NREN, and Peter Ford (LANL), to
     discuss NREN-related objectives.

     On October 15, SDSC hosted a visit from Don Albares of the Naval
     Ocean Systems Center to discuss the possibility of applying
     Albares' gigabit research to projects that SDSC is involved in.

     On October 21, UCSD and SDSC hosted a visit from Gurudatta Parulkar
     of Washington University in St. Louis, Missouri.  Parulkar gave
     presentations at both UCSD and SDSC on his research interests in
     high performance networks.

     Braun participated in a panel presentation at the Visualization '91
     conference in San Diego, on October 24, focusing on Networking
     Infrastructure, in particular as it applies to visualization
     requirements.

     Active involvement in the Casa Gigabit Testbed effort continues.
     On October 21, Braun participated in a Casa Executive Committee
     conference call. Dan Massey of SDSC continues to collaborate with
     LANL on HIPPI network simulation efforts.

     SDSC hosted a visit from Dan Stevenson of NCNC on October 25.
     Gerard Newman, Hans-Werner Braun, and Dan Massey met with him,
     focusing on issues related to the gigabit projects and other
     networking efforts at SDSC.

     SDSC is also maintaining active communication with the rest of the
     UCSD campus community.  On October 28, Braun gave a presentation on
     the NSFNET in a meeting of a research group at the UCSD Computer
     Science Department.

     SDSC has also gained considerable momentum in its network
     performance testing efforts.  Working toward project goals of
     network performance analysis has resulted in a set of initial data
     to explore the traffic domain, and is now focusing on establishing



Cooper                                                         [Page 29]

Internet Monthly Report                                     October 1991


     a systematic methodology for testing a variety of networking
     environments composed of multiple link, intermediate router, and
     end system architectures.  An effort between Claffy and colleagues
     in Japan is focusing on traffic characteristics between Japan and
     the United States, as measured by Toshiya Asaba of Recruit, Inc. at
     the WIDE network interface point to PACCOM in Japan.

     Paul Love (loveep@sdsc.edu)

SURANET
-------

     MCI/SURAnet Agreement

     SURAnet and MCI completed an agreement which will deliver
     significant benefits to all SURAnet members. SURAnet is beginning
     immediately to convert the existing SURAnet network.

     Access to T-3 Backbone

     Two new external gateways were introduced, ENSS #138 at Georgia
     Tech and ENSS #136 at College park, MD. These two nodes provide
     SURAnet sites access to the new T-3 NSFnet backbone.

     Archie

     An Archie server is now installed and running at the SURAnet NIC.
     This should provide much faster service to SURAnet members and
     others on the Internet who want to access this very popular
     service.

     SURAnet Review

     A high level Committee, formed for the purpose of assuring that
     SURAnet is and remains a program of excellence and of merit in
     meeting the communications needs of the higher education and
     research community, held its first visit on November 11th. It is
     anticipated that the Committee will visit SURAnet on an annual
     basis.












Cooper                                                         [Page 30]

Internet Monthly Report                                     October 1991


     SURAnet Technical Meeting

     Plans are being finalized for the SURAnet 2nd Annual Technical
     Meeting to be held at the University of Maryland from 12th - 15th
     November.  The Meeting will cover a variety of topics including
     OSPF/Routing; Internetworking with OSI; SMDS; T1 Date Circuits and
     others.

     by Peter Liebscher <plieb@sura.net>

UCL
----

     We have been conducting packet voice and video experiments across
     the 2Mbps IP service on JANET, paralleling the DARTNET activities.

     Using UDP for voice, we are now able to run mini-conferences with
     perfectly adequate audio quality, and using DPCM, about 50% of the
     64kbps required for sparc audio. Using X over TCP, or UDP based
     simple transport to carry XImages, we get 6-7 frames per second of
     mono 128 pixel video London-Cambridge, which is usable for video
     telephony. We still await delivery of H.261 CODECs from a certain
     telecom company.

     We are investigating the use of the Eschkol-Wachmann movement
     notation for automatic gesture recognition in stored digital video
     conference logs.  If we can make this quick enough, it may be used
     to automate some aspects of floor control (e.g. switching camera
     sources), but it can certainly be effectively employed to compare
     the non-verbal communication that is able to be used in different
     bandwith conferences. At the moment, a prototype is in use for
     studying mammal behaviour at 5 frames per second. This work is in
     conjunction with our neurophysiology department.

     John Crowcroft (j.crowcroft@CS.UCL.AC.UK)

UNIVERSITY OF DELAWARE
----------------------


     1.   Thanks to Lars Mathieson of the University of Copenhagen, we
          now have a Unix version of the NTP Version 3 time-
          synchronization protocol up and running. It was derived from
          Dennis Fergusson's xntpd distribution now in use at lots of
          places. In addition, Erik Perkins of our lab fixed the kernel
          and radio interface code to work with SunOS streams, so we now
          have a functional stratum-1 primary server online. A fair
          amount of work remains to certify the protocol machinery and



Cooper                                                         [Page 31]

Internet Monthly Report                                     October 1991


          local-clock algorithms.

     2.   Ken Monington has been carefully monitoring precision time
          differences (low nanoseconds) between our burgeoning crop of
          radio and atomic time references and finding some of them not
          as truly well disciplined as previously supposed. Glitches
          several times the claimed specification have been observed in
          all the radios, although the incidence of these is infrequent.
          This reinforces the conventional wisdom that no single clock
          can be trusted all the time.

          Dave Mills (Mills@UDEL.EDU)







































Cooper                                                         [Page 32]

Internet Monthly Report                                     October 1991


DIRECTORY SERVICES
------------------

This section of the Internet Monthly is devoted to efforts working to
develop directory services that are for, or effect, the Internet.  We
would like to encourage any organization with news about directory
service activities to use this forum for publishing brief monthly news
items.  The current reporters list includes:

   o IETF OSIDS Working Group
   o IETF DISI Working Group
   o Field Operational X.500 Project
      - ISI
      - Merit
      - PSI
      - SRI
   o National Institute of Standards and Technology        [X]
   o North American Directory Forum
   o OSI Implementor's Workshop                            [X]
   o PARADISE Project                                      [X]
   o PSI DARPA/NNT X.500 Project
   o PSI WHITE PAGES PILOT
   o Registration Authority Committee (ANSI USA RAC)       [X]
   o U.S. Department of State, Study Group D,              [X]
     MHS Management Domain subcommittee (SG-D MHS-MD)

           [X] indicates no report this month

Tom Tignor (tpt2@isi.edu)
DS Report Coordinator

IETF OSIDS WORKING GROUP
------------------------

     The OSI-DS Group met at Interop on 8th October.  Full details will
     be available in the soon to be published minutes.  The meeting was
     well attended, with representatives from Australia and France.

     The following I-Ds of the group have been recommended for progress
     to RFC by the IESG:

       -  An Interim Approach to use of Network Addresses  (OSI-DS 5)
       -  A String encoding of Presentation Address (OSI-DS 6)
       -  Domains and X.500 (OSI-DS 7)
       -  Using the OSI Directory to achieve User Friendly Naming
          (OSI-DS 8)
       -  Replication Requirement to provide an Internet Directory using
          X.500 (OSI-DS 9)



Cooper                                                         [Page 33]

Internet Monthly Report                                     October 1991


       -  The COSINE and Internet X.500 Schema (OSI-DS 10)
       -  Replication and Distributed Operations extensions
          to provide an Internet Directory using X.500 (OSI-DS 11)

     The document "Naming Guidelines for Directory Pilots (OSI-DS 12)"
     was discussed briefly, and pending minor edits is ready to be
     submitted as an RFC.  The document "DSA Naming (OSI-DS 13)" was
     discussed.  It is intended to attempt to progress this document
     prior to the next meeting, as it is important for the next stage of
     expansion.  Pilot experiments on "Handling QOS (Quality of service)
     in the Directory (OSI-DS 15)" are ongoing, and recommendatios on
     this I-D will be deferred until we have some practical experience.

     The document "An Access Control approach for Searching and Listing
     (OSI-DS 21)" was presented.  It was agreed that this should be
     submitted privately by the authors as an informational RFC.  The
     area was of interest, and this function should be considered later
     for Internet standardization.   If done, this should probably be
     based on the 92 access control.

     It was agreed that following successful experiments (Russ Wright,
     Tim Howes et al) that pictures in the directory should migrate for
     G3Fax to JPEG. Definitions would be added to the schema to allow
     for this.

     A draft document "A Strategic Plan for deploying an Internet
     Directory Service" was discussed.  The next version of this
     document will be an I-D.  This WG will take on active review of the
     document.  There were many comments, but broad concensus on the
     direction proposed.

     A lengthy discussion on postal addresses was avoided by scheduling
     this item at 18:00.

     Steve Hardcastle-Kille (s.kille@cs.ucl.ac.uk)

IETF DISI WORKING GROUP
-----------------------

     The DISI group is currently reviewing their draft, "An Executive
     Introduction to Directory Services Using the X.500 Protocol." As
     stated in the draft abstract, this document is an overview of the
     X.500 standard for people not familiar with the technology. It
     compares and contrasts Directory Services based on X.500 with
     several of the other Directory services currently in use in the
     Internet. The paper also describes the status of the standard and





Cooper                                                         [Page 34]

Internet Monthly Report                                     October 1991


     provides references for further information on X.500
     implementations and technical information.

     Chris Weider (clw@merit.edu)

FOX -- FIELD OPERATIONAL X.500 PROJECT
--------------------------------------

     The FOX project is a DARPA and NSF sponsored effort to provide a
     basis for operational X.500 deployment in the NREN/Internet.  This
     work is being carried out at Merit, NSYERNet/PSI, SRI and ISI.  ISI
     is the main contractor and responsible for project oversight.

     ISI
     ---

        ISI recently compiled and submitted the U.S./Internet component
        of the PARADISE report. The submission included updates on the
        activities of X.500-oriented organizations over the past half
        year. Directory Services activities were emphasized, and much of
        the submission consists of the most central elements of previous
        DSARs. Look for this information when the PARADISE report is
        released.

        Tom Tignor (tpt2@ISI.EDU)

     MERIT
     -----

        Merit's FOX activities for the month of October consisted mainly
        of presentations:

          1: Merit presented an overview of the FOX project to the
             RARE Working Group 3 meeting in Zurich, Switzerland in
             early October.

          2: Merit participated in the Fielding Operational X.500
             seminar at Interop in San Jose, CA in mid October.

        Chris Weider (clw@merit.edu)

     PSI
     ---

        A first draft of a document describing the schema supporting the
        x5ftp application was prepared and distributed to FOX
        participants. It will be submitted for review by the IETF OSI-DS
        group in the near future.



Cooper                                                         [Page 35]

Internet Monthly Report                                     October 1991


        A script to generate EDB files in accordance to the schema
        described above was written, and a new DIT subtree

                { o=Internet, ou=FTP Archives }

        was brought online.

        Discussions were begun with other interested parties on the
        specification of a lightweight alternative to the X.500 DAP. The
        form of the mechanism, as well as the functionality to be
        provided are both currently under discussion.

        PSI attended the FOX meeting at Interop '91.

        Wengyik Yeong (yeongw@psi.com)

     SRI
     ----

        Ruth Lang participated in the "Field Operational X.500 Directory
        Services" panel session at Interop 91.  Her talk gave an
        overview of the DISI Working Group, the creation of the DISI
        Internet-Draft entitled "A Catalog of Available X.500
        Implementations," and work performed to make WHOIS information
        available through X.500.

        Jose Garcia-Luna and Ruth Lang attended a FOX project meeting
        that occurred on Friday, October 11 at 7:30a at Interop 91.

        A prototype of X5WHOIS was demonstrated on Friday, October 11 at
        Interop 91 in the SRI booth.  The intent of X5WHOIS is to
        provide a facility as similar as possible to the existing NIC
        WHOIS service, using X.500 instead of the NIC database software.
        In order to provide reasonable response time, a total of 12
        indices are used to access the WHOIS information being offered
        by the QUIPU DSA "Northern Swift Fox." The additional memory
        required to support these indices has required that we
        temporarily reduce the data set available; specifically, only a
        token set of individual entries are available.  System
        reconfiguration work will be performed in the near future to
        remedy the problem.  You can experiment with X5WHOIS now; we
        will keep a current copy accessible while development continues.
        There are two methods, remote-WHOIS and TELNET:

        [1]  Remote-WHOIS:  Assuming your site runs the BSD
             "whois" program:
             % whois -h inic.nisc.sri.com <argument-string>
        [2a] Telnet to inic.nisc.sri.com, port 43.



Cooper                                                         [Page 36]

Internet Monthly Report                                     October 1991


             Type a one-line argument.
        [2b] Telnet normally to inic.nisc.sri.com.
             Login as "x5whois", which
             needs no password.  Type one-line arguments.

        Ruth Lang met with Bob McCollum and Mark Kosters of Network
        Solutions on October 18.  They discussed technical options of
        how GSI/Network Solutions could make a copy of the WHOIS
        information available to FOX for keeping the X.500 information
        up to date.  A description of viable technical options was
        submitted to Network Solutions for their review.

        Input for the PARADISE report highlighting SRI's activities over
        the last 8 months was submitted to the DSAR Editor.

        An effort to obtain updated implementation descriptions and new
        submissions for the DISI Internet-Draft, "A Catalog of Available
        X.500 Implementations," occurred.  Directed email describing
        additions and clarifications was sent to authors of existing
        catalog entries.  A "last chance to submit" message was sent to
        the IETF OSI-oriented mailing lists.  Russ Wright (LBL) and Ruth
        Lang (SRI) are in the process of compiling the updates to create
        a revised version of Internet-Draft document.

        We received and responded to 9 queries regarding the
        availability of "A Catalog of Available X.500 Implementations"
        (Internet-Draft document draft-ietf-disi-catalog-00.txt); 5 of
        these resulted from contacts made at Interop 91.

        Ruth Lang (rlang@nisc.sri.com)

NORTH AMERICAN DIRECTORY FORUM
-------------------------------

     At the last meeting of the NADF in Bethesda, the NADF began
     examining security and privacy issues related to the offering of
     directory services, with a new subgroup being formed that will
     focus on such issues.

     NADF-175, the revised version of NADF-123, has been released as an
     informational RFC (RFC 1255.)

     Wengyik Yeong (yeongw@psi.com)








Cooper                                                         [Page 37]

Internet Monthly Report                                     October 1991


PSI DARPA/NNT X.500 Project
---------------------------

     A script was written to remotely poll DSAs. This script will be
     used to check the reliability of DSAs under PSI control, including
     the master and official slaves for c=US.

     Some bugs in the quipu 7.0 code affecting the use of the Directory
     Assistance Service were fixed and fed back to the maintainers of
     the ISODE distribution.

     PSI speakers participated in the Interop '91 panels on "X.500
     Directory Services" and "Fielding Operational X.500".

     Wengyik Yeong (yeongw@psi.com)

PSI WHITE PAGES PILOT PROJECT
-----------------------------

     The transition of the PSI White Pages Pilot Project to the naming
     scheme proposed by the NADF was begun.

     New organizations added to the pilot this past month are:

             Control Data
             Washington University
             Stanford University
             Digital Equipment Corporation

     Wengyik Yeong (yeongw@psi.com)





















Cooper                                                         [Page 38]

Internet Monthly Report                                     October 1991


CALENDAR OF EVENTS
------------------

     Readers are requested to send in dates of events that are
     appropriate for this calendar section.

     1991 CALENDAR

     Sep 29-Oct 4    5TH SDL (CCITT FDT) FORUM,
                     Rick Reed, GPT Coventry, UK
                     rick_reed@eurokom.ie
     Oct 7-11        INTEROP91, San Jose, Ca
     Oct 7-15        6TH WORLD TELECOM'91 SYMPOSIUM, Geneva
     Oct 8-11        IFIP WORKSHOP ON OPEN DISTRIBUTED
                     PROCESSING -- Contact
                     jdm@fokus.berlin.gmd.dbp.de or
                     heymer@iir-adlershof.adw.dp.dd
     Oct 15-17       4TH INTL. WORKSHOP ON PROTOCOL TEST SYSTEM
                     Leidschendam, Jan Kroon (J_Kroon@pttrnl.nl)
     Nov 4           T1S1: Call Control and Signaling (ISDN,
                     Frame Relay, Broadband ATM), Dallas, TX
                     MCI/DSD
     Nov 10          T1E1, Physical Layer Interfaces (ISDN, T1,
                     Broadband, etc.), Florida, Siemens
     Nov 17          T1M1, Management and Maintenance (ISDN,
                     Broadband, Frame Relay, etc.) Nashville, TN,
                     Northern Telecom
     Nov 18-22       IETF, Santa Fe, MN
                     Megan Davies (mdavies@NRI.RESTON.VA.US
     Nov 19-22       FORTE'91, University of Queensland
                     Ken Parker, Telecom Austrl (k.parker@trl.oz.au)
     Dec 2-5         4TH INT. WORKSHOP ON PETRI NETS AND
                     PERFORMANCE MODELS, Melbourne, Australia
                     Jonathan Billington, Telecom Austrl.
                     (j.billington @ trl.oz.au)
     Dec 2-5         GLOBECOM'91, See IEEE Publications. Phoenic
     Dec 9-13        OIW, NIST, Gaithersburg, MD


     1992 CALENDAR

     Jan 13-21       ANSI X3T5
     Jan 19          T1S1, Call Control and Signaling (ISDN,
                     Frame Relay, Broadband ATM)
     Jan 20-22       RIPE, Amsterdam
     Jan 28-30       ANSI X3S3.3, Tucson, AZ
     Feb 9           T1E1, Physical Layer Interfaces (ISDN, T1,
                     Broadband, etc.) Fish Camp, CA  Verilink



Cooper                                                         [Page 39]

Internet Monthly Report                                     October 1991


     Feb 19-20       RARE WG1, Location unknown
     Feb 20-21       RARE Manager Mtg, Location unknown
     Mar 2           T1S1, Call Control and Signaling (ISDN, Frame
                     Relay, Broadband ATM)
     Mar 2-6         ANSI X3T5
     Mar 2-6         CAIA '92  8th IEEE Conference on AI Application
     Mar 3-5         ACM CSC, Kansas City, MO
     Mar 9-13        IEEE802 Plenary, Irvine, CA
     Mar 9-13        OIW, NIST, Gaithersburg, MD
     Mar 16-19       Info Netwrk&DataComm, Espoo, FI
                     Espoo, Helsinki, Finland; Contact: IFIP-TC6
     Mar 18-20       Computers, Freedom & Privacy II,
                     Grand Hyatt Hotel, Washington, DC
     Mar 23          T1M1, Management and Maintenance (ISDN,
                     Broadband, Frame Relay, etc.), Raleigh, NC,
                     Fujitsu
     Mar 25-27       National Net 92, Washington DC
                     Elizabeth Barnhart (barnhart@educom.edu)
     Apr 6-16        CCITT SG VII    Geneva, Switzerland
     Apr 21-23       ANSI X3S3.3, Mountaon View, Ca.
     <Spring>        IETF, San Diego, CA
                     Megan Davies (mdavies@nri.reston.va.us)
     May 4-6         ANSI X3T5
     May 4-8         DECUS '92, Atlanta, GA
     May 4-8         IEEE INFOCOM'92, See IEEE Pub., Florence
     May 11          T1E1,  Physical Layer Interfaces (ISDN, T1,
                     Broadband, etc.)
                     Williamsburg, VA, Bell Atlantic
     May 12-14       Joint Network Conference 3, Innsbruck, Austria
                     (this is the RARE Networkshop - renamed)
     May 13-15       IFIP International Workshop on Protocols for
                     High Speed Networks, Stockholm, Sweden
                     Contact:  <PfHSN92@sics.se>
     May 18-25       INTEROP92, Washington, D.C.
                     Dan Lynch (dlynch@interop.com)
     May 19-29       ISO/IEC JTC 1/SC 21, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada
     May 27-29       IFIP WG 6.5 Int'l Conference, Vancouver, Canada
     May ??-??       Third IFIP International Workshop on
                     Protocols for High-Speed Networks, Stockholm
                     Per Gunningberg, per@sics.se
                     Bjorn Pehrson, bjorn@sics.se
                     Stephen Pink, steve@sics.se
     Jun 8           T1M1, Management and Maintenance (ISDN,
                     Broadband, Frame Relay, etc.)
                     Minneapolis, MN, ADC TElecom
     Jun 8-12        OIW, NIST, Gaithersburg, MD
     Jun 10-11       RARE WG1, tentative-Location unknown
     Jun 11-12       RARE COSINE MHS MGR, tentative-Location unknown



Cooper                                                         [Page 40]

Internet Monthly Report                                     October 1991


     Jun 14-17       ICC-SUPERCOMM'92, Chicago, IL
     Jun 15-19       INET92, Kobe, Japan
                     Jun Murai (jun@wide.ad.jp), KEIO University
                     Elizabeth Barnhart (barnhart@educom.edu)
                     "North America Contact"
     Jun 16-18       ANSI X3S3.3, Minneapolos, MN
     Jun 22-25       PSTV-XII, Orlando
                     Umit Uyar (umit@honet5.att.com)
                     Jerry Linn or Holmdel, NIST
                     linnrj@ECF.NCSL.NIST.GOV
     Jun 14-17       ICC-SUPERCOMM'92, Chicago, See IEEE Publ..
     Jul 6-10        IEEE802 Plenary, Bloomington, MN
     Jul 13-17       ANSI X3T5
     Jul 13-24       ISO/IEC JTC1/SC6, San Diego, CA
     Aug 2           T1S1, Call Control and Signaling (ISDN,
                     Frame Relay, Broadband ATM)
     Aug 16          T1S1, Call Control and Signaling (ISDN,
                     Frame Relay, Broadband ATM)
     Aug 17-20       SIGCOMM, Baltimore, MD
                     Deepinder Sidhu, UMBC
     Sep 7-11        IFIP World Congress
                     Madrid, Spain;  Contact: IFIP
     Sep 14-18       ANSI X3T5
     Sep 21-25       OIW, NIST, Gaithersburg, MD
     Sep 22-24       ANSI X3S3.3, Boston, MA
     Oct 5-8         FORTE'92, Lannion
                     Roland Groz (groz@lannion.cnet.fr)
                     Michel Diaz (diaz@droopy.laas.fr)
     Oct 26-30       INTEROP92, San Francisco
                     Dan Lynch (dlynch@interop.com)
     Nov 9-13        ANSI X3T5
     Dec             ANSI X3S3.3, Boulder, CO
     Dec 7-11        DECUS '92, Las Vegas, NV
     Dec 14-18       OIW, NIST, Gaithersburg, MD


1993 CALENDAR

     Mar 8-12        INTEROP93, Wasington, D.C.
                     Dan Lynch (dlynch@interop.com)
     Mar 8-12        OIW, NIST, Gaithersburg, MD
     May 23-26       ICC'92, Geneva, Switzerland
     May-Jun         PSTV-XIII, University of Liege.
                     Contact: Andre Danthine,
     May 23-26       ICC'93, Geneva, See IEEE Publications.
     Jun 7-11        OIW, NIST, Gaithersburg, MD
     Aug             INET93,  San Francisco Bay Area
     Aug             SIGCOMM, San Francisco



Cooper                                                         [Page 41]

Internet Monthly Report                                     October 1991


     Sep 13-17       OIW, NIST, Gaithersburg, MD
     Sep 20-31       ISO/IEC JTC1/SC6, Seoul, Korea.
     Oct 12-14       Conference on Network Information Processing,
                     Sofia, Bulgaria;  Contact: IFIP-TC6
     Oct 25-29       INTEROP93, San Francisco
                     Dan Lynch (dlynch@interop.com)
     Nov 9-13        IEEE802 Plenary, LaJolla, CA
     Dec 6-10        OIW, NIST, Gaithersburg, MD

     1994 CALENDAR

     Apr 18-22       INTEROP94, Washington, D.C.
                     Dan Lynch (dlynch@interop.com)
     Aug 29-Sep 2    IFIP World Congress
                     Hamburg, Germany; Contact: IFIP
     Sep 12-16       INTEROP94, San Francisco
                     Dan Lynch (dlynch@interop.com)

     1995 EVENTS

     Sep 18-22       INTEROP95, San Francisco, CA
                     Dan Lynch (dlynch@interop.com)





























Cooper                                                         [Page 42]
