





~












July 1991


INTERNET MONTHLY REPORTS
------------------------

The purpose of these reports is to communicate to the Internet Research
Group the accomplishments, milestones reached, or problems discovered by
the participating organizations.

     This report is for Internet information purposes only, and is not
     to be quoted in other publications without permission from the
     submitter.

Each organization is expected to submit a 1/2 page report on the first
business day of the month describing the previous month's activities.
These reports should be submitted via network mail to Ann Westine
(Westine@ISI.EDU) or Corinne Carroll (Ccarroll@@SH.CS.NET).

Requests to be added or deleted from the Internet Monthly report list
should be sent to "westine@isi.edu".

TABLE OF CONTENTS

  INTERNET ACTIVITIES BOARD

     IAB MESSAGE  . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  3
     INTERNET RESEARCH REPORTS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  3
        AUTONOMOUS NETWORKS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  3
        END-TO-END SERVICES  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  3








Westine                                                         [Page 1]

Internet Monthly Report                                        July 1991


  Internet Projects

     BOLT BERANEK AND NEWMAN, INC.,  . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  4
     CIX (COMMERCIAL INTERNET EXCHANGE). . . . . . . . . . . . page  5
     FARNET (FEDERATION OF AMERICAN RESEARCH NETWORKS) . . . . page  5
     ISI . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  7
     JVNCNET, NORTH EAST RESEARCH REGIONAL NETWORK . . . . . . page  7
     LOS NETTOS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  9
     MERIT/MICHNET . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  9
     MITRE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 10
     NEW ENGLAND ACADEMIC AND RESEARCH NETWORK . . . . . . . . page 11
     NNSC, UCAR/BOLT BERANEK and NEWMAN, INC., . . . . . . . . page 11
     NSFNET BACKBONE, MERIT. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 12
     PREPnet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 13
     SAIC. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 13
     SAN DIEGO SUPERCOMPUTER CENTER  . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 13
     SRI . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 15
     UCL . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 16
     UDEL. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 16
     WISCNET . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 17

  DIRECTORY SERVICES ACTIVITIES

     DIRECTORY SERVICES MESSAGE  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 19
     FOX - FIELD OPERATIONAL X.500 PROJECT . . . . . . . . . . page 19
        ISI. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 19
        MERIT. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 20
        SRI. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 20
     PARADISE PROJECT. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 21

  CALENDAR OF EVENTS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 24




















Westine                                                         [Page 2]

Internet Monthly Report                                        July 1991



IAB MESSAGE

     A plenary session at the Atlanta IETF meeting summarized the
     results of the Retreat on the Future of the Internet Architecture,
     a meeting of the IAB, IESG, and IRSG in June.  This IETF session
     included presentations by the chairs of the breakout groups from
     the Retreat: Russ Hobby (Advanced Applications), Bob Braden
     (Traffic Control and State), Vint Cerf (Security), Lyman Chapin
     (Multi-Protocol Architecture), and Dave Clark (Routing and
     Addressing).  Summaries and slides will appear in the IETF
     Proceedings.

     Bob Braden (Braden@ISI.EDU)

INTERNET RESEARCH REPORTS
-------------------------

     AUTONOMOUS NETWORKS
     -------------------

        ANRG held a short video conference to discuss large scale
        simulation. No official minutes available.

        Deborah Estrin (Estrin@USC.EDU)

     END-TO-END SERVICES
     -------------------

        No progress to report this month.

        Bob Braden (Braden@ISI.EDU)



















Westine                                                         [Page 3]

Internet Monthly Report                                        July 1991


INTERNET PROJECTS
-----------------

BOLT BERANEK AND NEWMAN INC.
----------------------------

     Terrestrial Wideband Network (TWBNet) and ST/IP Gateway

     During July, we completed the development of a new version of WPS
     software that supports the use of an intelligent I/O board (BI4).
     This added hardware will allow reduction of the TWBNet per-node
     forwarding delay by about 67%: from approximately 21 msec/node to 7
     msec/node.  It will also allow the use of a smaller cell size
     (approximately one half the current size), which will let
     applications reserve bandwidth with finer granularity.

     During the month of July there were twelve video conferences using
     the TWBNet. Of these conferences, three involved simultaneous
     connections to 4 different conferencing sites, four were point-to-
     point, and one was a demonstration for the University of Oslo.
     There were four conferences using the DARTnet technology on the
     TWBNet. Of the twelve conferences, three involved the conferencing
     suite at UCL and one conference involved both the new conferencing
     site at Los Alamos National Laboratory and the Warrior Preparation
     Center in Germany.  These conferences supported the US-UK Fat Pipe
     Operational Management Group (OMG), Synchronization Protocol work,
     and a DARPA NOS contract program review.

     Also during July there were two Simnet exercises. These exercises
     involved two sites and each had a duration of one week.

     Inter-Domain Policy Routing

     During the month of July, the IDPR working group of the IETF
     released three documents: an update of the architecture
     description, a configuration guide, and a MIB.  A fourth document,
     an update of the protocol specification, will be released in early
     August.  BBN prepared the architecture description, protocol
     specification, and configuration guide, and SAIC prepared the MIB.

     SAIC is generating a "gated" version of IDPR and is also working on
     the MIB software.  BBN is working on the configuration software and
     will also provide some assistance in the gated effort.








Westine                                                         [Page 4]

Internet Monthly Report                                        July 1991


     The IDPR working group met for two sessions at the Atlanta IETF
     meeting.  We discussed the two newest documents, namely the
     configuration guide and the MIB, and are looking forward to
     constructive criticism on both.

     Steve Storch (sstorch@BBN.COM)


COMMERCIAL INTERNET EXCHANGE (CIX)
----------------------------------

     The first CIX site is operational and passing traffic.  CIX-WEST is
     located in the William's Telecommunications POP in Santa Clara, CA
     with dedicated hardware.

     Initially, CIX-WEST will connect Alternet, CERFNet, and PSINet.
     Currently, the PSINet and Alternet T1 lines are operational.
     CERFNet is expected to be on line in the next few days.

     At the present time, 261 networks within Alternet and PSINet are
     using the CIX-WEST.  Approximately 3000 domains are using the CIX-
     WEST for electronic mail services. Traffic statistics are being
     gathered via SNMP.  Traffic reports will be included in future
     Internet Monthly reports.

     The domains cix.org and cix.net have been registered with the NIC.
     A machine "cix.org", located on CERFNet, has been set up to receive
     mail.

     Send mail to info@cix.org for information regarding the CIX.

     Mark Fedor (fedor@uu.psi.com)

FEDERATION OF AMERICAN RESEARCH NETWORKS (FARNET)
-------------------------------------------------

     This report includes events for both June and July.

     FARNET has moved into new office space at 100 Fifth Avenue, 4th
     floor, Waltham,MA 02154.  The telephone number is (617) 890-5120.
     You can also dial 1-800-72-FARNET (the extra T disappears).  Our
     fax number is (617) 890-5117.

     Susan Estrada, Vice President of FARNET and director of CERFnet,
     has been appointed Co-Area Director of the new IETF Operations Area
     Directorate.  For more information, contact estradas@nic.cerf.net.





Westine                                                         [Page 5]

Internet Monthly Report                                        July 1991


     Several FARNET members attended the INET 91 meeting in Copenhagen
     June 18-20.  Glenn Ricart, president of FARNET and SURAnet
     principal investigator, chaired asession on collaboration
     technologies.  Ira Fuchs of CREN chaired a session on North
     American network activities that included presentations by Eric
     Aupperle of MERIT, Richard Mandelbaum of NYSERNet, and Guy Almes of
     Sesquinet.  Richard Mandelbaum also chaired a session on networks
     of the year 2000.  Also making presentations at the conference were
     Laura Breeden (Internet operations in a distributed international
     environment), Allan Weis of ANS and William Schrader of PSI
     (commercial services in the Internet), Lynn F. Ten Eyck of the San
     Diego Supercomputer Center (worldwide networking in chemistry and
     molecular biology),and Susan Calcari of MERIT (education over the
     international internet).

     FARNET announced a discount agreement with PSI to provide
     individual dial-up services for institutions of higher education
     that participate in FARNET membernetworks.  For more information,
     contact FARNET, PSI or your regional network provider.

     FARNET attended an open meeting at the National Science Foundation
     on June 10 for the purpose of providing feedback and obtaining
     information about the draftNSF RFP for Network Information
     Services, due out in the fall of 1991.

     Laura Breeden attended the Federal Networking Council meeting July
     10-11.  FARNET will be working with the Federal agencies involved
     in the NREN program, such as NASA, the Department of Energy, and
     NSF, to improve the quality of end-to-end service in the Internet.

     Final plans for the August FARNET meeting were made.  The meeting
     will include a two-day workshop on connectivity among the midlevel
     networks after the current backbone agreement expires in November
     1992.  In addition to FARNET member representatives, the workshop
     will include a number of invited guests from other NREN
     stakeholders, such as carriers, libraries, and Federal agencies.
     Results of the workshop will be made available in a paper in
     September, which will include recommendations of the FARNET
     membership to NSF about how best to support inter-regional
     connectivity.

     The FARNET plenary and business meeting will be held immediately
     after the workshop, on August 14.

     by Laura Breeden, (breeden@farnet.org)
     Executive Director, FARNET





Westine                                                         [Page 6]

Internet Monthly Report                                        July 1991


ISI
---

     GIGABIT NETWORKING

     INFRASTRUCTURE

     Joyce Reynolds, Jon Postel and Bob Braden travelled to the IETF
     Conference in Atlanta, Georgia, July 29 through Aug 2.  Bob Braden
     and Jon Postel attended a symposium on GIGABIT Networks, in
     Washington D.C, Jul 14-17.

     Five RFCs were published this month.

        RFC 1237:  Colella, R. (NIST), E. Gardner (MITRE), and
                   R. Callon (DEC) "Guidelines for OSI NSAP Allocation
                   in the Internet", July 1991.

        RFC 1244:  Holbrook, P. (CICNET), and J. Reynolds (ISI) "Site
                   Security Handbook", July 1991.

        RFC 1245:  Moy, J., "OSPF Protocol Analysis", Proteon, Inc.,
                   July 1991.

        RFC 1246:  Moy, J., "Experience with the OSPF Protocol", Proteon
                   Group, July 19991.

        RFC 1247:  Moy, J., "OSPF Version 2", Proteon, July 1991.

     Ann Westine (Westine@ISI.EDU)

     MULTIMEDIA CONFERENCING

     No Internet news to report this month.

     Steve Casner and Eve Schooler (casner@ISI.EDU, schooler@ISI.EDU)


JVNCNET, NORTH EAST RESEARCH REGIONAL NETWORK
---------------------------------------------

     General information on JvNCnet is available on-line from
     nisc.jvnc.net.  Use "telnet nisc.jvnc.net", username "nicol" and no
     password.

     Errata for network availability, June Internet report. The correct
     availability for June, 1991 is 99.91%.




Westine                                                         [Page 7]

Internet Monthly Report                                        July 1991


     The traffic for June was 1,705,976,387 (combined incoming plus
     outgoing) packets. Four highest contributors were Rutgers
     University (12.99%), Princeton University (12.06%), UPENN (5.76%),
     and Yale (5.57%).

     It is anticipated that the Princeton T3 node installation will be
     completed by the fall, 1991.

     JvNCnet is planning the next symposium that will spotlight network
     applications.  For further symposium information, please send
     inquiries to "nisc@jvnc.net."

     For more NOCOL information (JvNCnet Network Operations Center On-
     Line software package) and for acquisition of this application
     without charge, please send email to "nocol-info@jvnc.net."

     At the June 28 JvNCnet Regional Meeting, three members explained
     their services or developing services which are Internet-accessible
     via JvNCnet.

     Ms.Stephanie Suplee, Esq, Sr. Account Executive and Mr. Alan Huber,
     Sr.  Technical Consultant, Mead Data Central, both talked about
     MDC's LEXIS/NEXIS services as well as "how to" connect to these
     databases.

     Mr. Anthony Abbott, Sr. Vice President of Meckler Publishing
     (Westport, CT), described the joint Meckler/JvNCnet NICOL project.
     To be built in stages, Meckler's computer-based technology database
     will "live" in the menu-driven NICOL infrastructure and serve as an
     "electronic warehouse" for its technology, newsletters,
     conferences, periodicals, and books.  The first round of
     development has Meckler working to create a contents list of their
     14 periodicals and selected information technology books (since
     January 1991) for installment in NICOL. The first-tier level of the
     Meckler directory will contain a table of contents of all
     publications and conferences.  A searcher will scan a bibliographic
     shell and then access the second tier leading to an index for full
     text documents.  Meckler ultimately expects users (especially the
     information specialist, librarian, academic, and persons interested
     in electronic-based information and resources), to select and view
     a full text document; to access a copy via ftp; to order from book
     and periodical catalogs; and to register for conferences.

     CD-ROM Librarian Index 1986-1990 and text of CD-Rom Librarian for
     May 1991 now reside in NICOL's Meckler directory.

     Mr.Todd Vander Does, Systems Programmer at AMS described "e-MATH",
     a service developed at the American Mathematical Society with



Westine                                                         [Page 8]

Internet Monthly Report                                        July 1991


     partial National Science Foundation funding.  Directed to academic
     faculty; students; public, private, and governmental researchers;
     AMS, MAA, and SIAM members, librarians, and human resource
     managers, e-MATH provides a menu-driven repository of network tools
     and information.  Its contents are particularly helpful to the
     mathematics community.  Document ordering, employment listings, MR
     classifications, AMS journal style files, combined memberships
     lists, and AMS platform-independent enhancements of TeX typesetting
     language (AMS-TeX, AMS-fonts, AMS-LaTeX) are currently offered.
     Anticipated inclusions to the updated version will:

     * enhance collaboration and support in the form of electronic
       conferencing and bulletin boards
     * establish an electronic research journal to widen accessibility of
       research information
     * centralize ARCHIE and IMP for network resource access

     The "ftp"," mail","more", and "telnet" functions are e-MATH
     compatible and e-MATH operates on an Ultrix-based DECsystem 3100.

     Access: Telnet e-math.ams.com.  Login and password are e-math.
     Electronic inquiries: support@e-math.ams.com.

     by Rochelle Hammer <hammer@nisc.jvnc.net>

LOS NETTOS
----------

     OSPF testing continues.

     Walt Prue (Prue@ISI.EDU)

MERIT/MICHNET
-------------

     June-July 1991

     Alma College, located in Alma, Michigan, and Northwest Michigan
     College, with campuses in Traverse City and Cadillac, have become
     MichNet's newest affiliates. Both of these schools will get their
     network hookups early in the fall.

     An initial implementation of PPP (Point-to-point protocol) has been
     implementedin MichNet and is available to dial-in as well as
     traditionally connected users. This initial implementation allows
     for basic service within the state of Michigan. Basic service
     includes telnet, ftp, quote of the day, and finger service at hosts
     within Michigan. Later this year authentication will be added to



Westine                                                         [Page 9]

Internet Monthly Report                                        July 1991


     the PPP implementation within MichNet, which will allow PPP users
     access to the greater Internet.

     At their June 10th meeting the Merit Board directed the staff to
     investigate what role Merit should play to encourage video
     networking in the state of Michigan. The goal is to report back to
     the Board with a recommendation and business plan in January 1992.
     The Merit staff had previously written a report for its member
     schools recommending that any video codex equipment that is
     purchased should meet the H.261 standard. At this time, the GPT
     codex is furthest along in implementing this standard.

     Merit/MichNet staffers Ellen Hoffman, Mark Knopper, Glenn McGregor,
     Dana Sitzler, and Chris Weider attended the IETF meeting in Atlanta
     in July.  At that meeting Knopper and Weider presented 6 proposed
     RFCs to the OSI-DS working group, which went back to the authors
     for rewrite.  Weider, along with co-authors Joyce Reynolds (ISI)
     and Sergio Heker (JvNC) had a proposed RFC accepted as an Internet
     Draft at the DISI working group. This new Internet Draft is a FYI,
     intended as a tutorial on X.500. McGregor's Internet Draft on PPP
     Header Compression was accepted by the PPP working group into full
     RFC status.

     As of August 20, users at workstations located in a public area or
     who dial into MichNet will be subject to some restrictions about
     which telnet ports they connect to. They will be able to connect to
     ports 17 (quote of the day), 23 (telnet), and 79 (finger) without
     any new procedure. But to connect to any other port they must
     supply an authorization code and a password. This restriction
     applies even to hosts within Michigan. Users on private, hardwired
     connections to MichNet do not go through this authorization
     procedure. Systems managers will be able to register specific ports
     on their hosts which they wantto be available without additional
     authorization.

     by Pat McGregor (patmcg@merit.edu)

MITRE Corporation
-----------------

     Bill Barns, Walt Lazear, Shari Galitzer, John McGuthry, Allison
     Mankin, and Rick Wilder attended the IETF in Atlanta.  Walt made
     presentations on MITRE's OSI work to the Network OSI Operations and
     X.400 Operations working groups.

     John and Walt continued preparations for the OSI Infrastructure
     demo at Interop '91 in October.  X Windows over a full OSI protocol
     stack is the near-term focus for the demo support.



Westine                                                        [Page 10]

Internet Monthly Report                                        July 1991


     Shari has started an effort with Kinesix to tailor their SAMMI
     product to the internet management environment.  A simple protocol
     tool will gather information and SAMMI will be used to display and
     summarize it in graphical form.

     Walt Lazear (lazear@gateway.mitre.org)

NEW ENGLAND ACADEMIC AND RESEARCH NETWORK
-----------------------------------------

     NEARnet has grown to 89 members.

     NEARnet operations continue to be stable.  Access to the NSFnet has
     been interrupted several times by problems with the T3 network.
     The most serious of these was a 10 hour outage on July 9 when the
     T1 backup path was also unavailable.  Most outages have been less
     than 15 minutes during which time routing has switched from the T1
     to the T3 or vice-versa.

     NEARnet continues deployment of DECNET for ESNET.

     NEARnet is planning to participate in OSI routing for the Interop
     Conference.

     by John Rugo <jrugo@bbn.com>

NNSC, UCAR/BOLT BERANEK and NEWMAN, INC.
----------------------------------------

     Karen Roubicek gave a presentation on the Internet at the National
     Library of Medicine in Bethesda, MD.

     The STIS (the Science & Technology System at the National Science
     Foundation) announcement has been added to the NSFNET portion of
     the Info-Server.

     To receive this announcement from the Info-Server, send a mail
     message to: info-server@nnsc.nsf.net, in the body of the message
     type:

     Request: nsfnet Topic:   stis

     This request will automatically send you the STIS announcement.

     The NNSC distributed additions to chapters 3 and 5 of the Internet
     Resource Guide.





Westine                                                        [Page 11]

Internet Monthly Report                                        July 1991


     John Curran participated in the DISI and NISI Working Groups at the
     IETF.

     Corinne Carroll <ccarroll@nnsc.nsf.net>

NSF BACKBONE (Merit)
--------------------

     NSFNET Project (Merit Network, Inc.)

     Total traffic on the NSFNET T1 and T3 infrastructures measured
     8,742,898,058 inbound packets, representing all inbound traffic
     during July, 1991.

     NSFNET T1 infrastructure inbound traffic totaled 7,976,722,283
     packets during July, 1991.  This total includes packet traffic
     entering the T1 network from the T3 network.  Networks announced to
     the T1 NSFNET number 3086 as of 30 July; of this total, 1012 are
     foreign networks.

     NSFNET T3 infrastructure inbound traffic totaled 1,848,194,544
     packets during July, 1991.  This total includes packet traffic
     entering the T3 network from the T1 network.  Networks announced to
     the T3 NSFNET numbered 616 as of 30 July.

     Redesign of the T3 infrastructure to accommodate the eight nodes
     scheduled for T3 expansion in Phase II continues.  A new C-NSS
     architecture has been deployed throughout the east coast and most
     of the midwest.  Three new C-NSS sites have been added at New York,
     Greensboro and St. Louis.  Four new links have been added into the
     infrastructure, increasing the number of T3 links to 19 in support
     of Phase II T3 expansion.

     Elise Gerich of Merit Internet Engineering attended "An NREN
     Workshop," held at NASA-Ames on July 9-11.  Eric Aupperle,
     President of Merit Network, Inc., and Bilal Chinoy of Merit
     Internet Engineering attended the Symposium on Gigabit Networks
     July 14-17 in Washington, D.C.

     Gerich and Jordan Becker, of ANS, presented the NSFNET network
     status report to the plenary session of IETF convened in Atlanta.
     Several members of Merit's Engineering and Information Services
     groups attended IETF, chairing working groups for NISI, X.500 and
     OSI, as well as participating in the overall program: Sue Hares,
     Ellen Hoffman, Dale Johnson, Mark Knopper, John Scudder, Dana
     Sitzler, Pat Smith, and Chris Weider.

     Jo Ann Ward (jward@merit.edu)



Westine                                                        [Page 12]

Internet Monthly Report                                        July 1991


PREPNET
-------

     PREPnet had two organizations join in July:  WEA Manufacturing,
     Inc. and Carnegie Group, Inc.  WEA Manufacturing will be connected
     to the Scranton hub at 56Kbps, and Carnegie Group will be connected
     to the Pittsburgh hub at 56Kbps.

     PREPnet NIC (prepnet+@andrew.cmu.edu)

SAIC
-----

     The second step in the gated port has been completed.  IDPR has
     been integrated into the current release of gated software.
     Initial testing of this implementation has begun.  IDPR currently
     uses its own parser for its configuration files.  It is not clear
     that IDPR configuration will be integrated with gated because of
     its complexity.

     RFC 1241 for encapsulation has been introduced as an experimental
     protocol.  This encapsulation scheme has some features that differ
     from IDPR encapsulation.  Work will continue on this protocol for
     use in the Internet and possible use with IDPR.

     Planned activies:

     Testing of the newly integrated software will continue.  Further
     integration will replace more facilities in the old prototype with
     gated facilities.  Old interfaces between the IDPR sub-protocols
     still need to be cleaned up for the single-thread environment.  A
     design document for IDPR in gated will be completed by the end of
     August.  A crucial part of the continuing integration effort is the
     tying of BBNs configuration work into this implementation.

     Work on using gated SNMP management facilities for the IDPR MIB
     will also begin.

     Robert Woodburn (woody@sparta.com)

SAN DIEGO SUPER COMPUTER
------------------------

     This will summarize the changes since our last report.

     We are continuing our cooperation with Merit to resolve some
     routing issues on the T3/SDSC connection.  We are looking forward
     to the growth of the NSF's T3 network and plan to make full use of



Westine                                                        [Page 13]

Internet Monthly Report                                        July 1991


     it in the near future.

     We have converted our UltraNet/Cray connection from HSX to HiPPI.
     This is the first step in the installation of the CASA testbed
     HiPPI crossbar switch.  Also on the Ultra, we have run several
     timing tests - Cray to/from UTS on the Amdahl.  While these were
     not what we had hoped for, Amdahl is installing mods to increase
     the speed.

     Our Proteon p4200 router has been upgraded to 9.1 software.

     Our Cisco AGS has also been upgraded to the latest release.

     We also spent a large amount of time, with CERFnet, tracking down
     the route caching bug.  You can see the full details in the CERFnet
     report.

     During July we gatewayed over 150,000 mail messages through our
     Software Tools mail software.

     Our FDDI network has had several changes since Feb.  Today, SDSC
     has a single FDDI network which has three NSC DX series chassis
     configured as follows:

     DX1 - Network: FDDI plus N220(IBM BMC@3MB), N400(VAX and SUNs),
             IP coprocessor
     DX2 - Network: FDDI plus N130 (CRAY interface), IP coprocessor
     DX3 - Network: FDDI plus HC50 (2-trunks), 4 Ethernets,
             IP coprocessor
           The HC50 (old HyperChannel) also connects to the following:
           A400 - Network: HC50 (VAX and SUN access),
           A223 - Network: HC50 (IBM BMC),
           DX5  - Network: HC50 plus dual N220(IBM BMC)

     Additionally the FDDI ring has a DEC concentrator connected to the
     NSFnet T3 router and two VME based SUNs via CMC interfaces.

     During the Spring we have had a series of problems on our ring and
     with our NSC equipment.  All have now been corrected.  The
     description and resolution of problems is set out below.  As an
     aside, SDSC would like to thank NSC for their help in resolving
     these issues.  The assignment of an NSC engineer to SDSC for
     several weeks was a big help in the resolution.

        o Byte dropping-7th byte from end of buffer (output from the IBM).
          IBM)
          This problem was detected between DX1 and DX2, DX1 and an
          A400.  The problem persisted for several months even though



Westine                                                        [Page 14]

Internet Monthly Report                                        July 1991


          all the hardware between the IBM channel and the DX1 chassis
          had been replaced. This problem disappeared with no specific
          resolution (not seen since March.)
        o Bit 2**4 picking and dropping (input to the CRAY).
          This problem was always on a 64 word boundry and was only seen
          when data was transfer inbound to the CRAY.  The solution was
          to shotgun DX2 with spare NUC and MEM cards plus upgrading all
          DX's to NUC code to 7.1.
        o 32bit shifting (input to the CRAY)
          This problem was only visible when the archival system was
          transfering to the CRAY.  The processor that NSC uses on the
          FDDI board works in 32bits.  It was unclear if the sending or
          receiving FDDI was causing the problem.  Upgrading from NSC
          Series B FDDI to Series C FDDI cards stopped the errors.
        o FDDI FIFO overrun (input to the Cray)
          This problem was visible only when large files were
          transferred from our archival system to the CRAY.
          Occasionally a transfer would have a bad checksum - with a
          checksum value of zero.  After much effort, it was discovered
          that the NSC FDDI FIFO clears its buffer and that when an
          overrun occures the application on the Cray did not properly
          handle this [new] error status. The applications's checksum
          caught the zero'd block, then recovered.  DISCOS has
          implemented code to handle this error status (we were their
          first FDDI site.)  This turned out not to be a NSC problem,
          but their assistance in resolving it was vital.
        o NSC WRAP diagnostic failures (only associated with the
          FDDI network)
          The NSC CE's were able to demonstrate the 32bit shift by
          running the NSC WRAP diagnostic ( WRAP would report an AD data
          miscompare error when the shift occurred.)  The CRAY zero
          checksum error was demonstrated with WRAP as AD length
          miscompare (this is when a FIFO would overrun.  The WRAP test
          required large buffers (FFF7) running on a busy network to see
          the overrun errors.)  The 2**4 twiddle and the 7th byte drop
          were undetected by WRAP.

     by Paul Love <loveep@sdsc.edu>

SRI
----

     The cumulative total of all IP numbers now assigned is now 31,206.
     See the table below for a breakdown of these assignments by class.
     There are now a total of 1,323 Autonomous System Numbers (ASNs)
     assigned.  There are currently a total of 3,052 domains registered.
     This includes the root domain, 63 top-level domains, 2,925 second-
     level domains, and 64 third-level MIL subdomains.



Westine                                                        [Page 15]

Internet Monthly Report                                        July 1991


                             Cumulative IP Network Statistics

     Month/Year                       Class

                             A       B       C           Total

     Jul. 1991               43      5,799   25,364      31,206
     Jun. 1991               43      5,654   24,449      30,146
     May. 1991               43      5,026   24,797      29,866
     Apr. 1991               43      4,977   25,897      30,917
     Mar. 1991               41      4,520   24,572      29,133
     Feb. 1991               39      4,347   22,552      26,938
     Jan. 1991               39      4,246   21,731      26,016
     Dec. 1990               36      4,305   21,811      26,152
     Nov. 1990               35      4,198   21,149      25,382

     Mary Stahl (stahl@nisc.sri.com)

UCL
----

     Most of the month has been taken up with 1) measuring interaction
     of TCP slow start and Channel allocation scheme on our LAN-P-ISDN
     IP gateway.  2) Video Traffic modelling - looking at differential
     packet dropping for inter-frame compressed frames versus intra-
     frame compressed frames (see MPEG spec).

     A paper on an anomolous performance problem in RPC over TCP was
     circulated to the community - it is available fro anonymous FTP
     from cs.ucl.ac.uk in docs/rpcperf.ps.

     John Crowcroft (j.crowcroft@CS.UCL.AC.UK)

UNIVERSITY OF DELAWARE
----------------------


     1.   Packet-loss rates from campus to the College Park NSFnet NSS
          have been substantially reduced, thanks to efforts of the SURA
          and UDel technical crew. Future upgrades to SURA equipment are
          expected to reduce the loss rates, now in the three-percent
          range, still further.

     2.   John Elias and his crew developed a six layer board for the
          highball node controller card.  They are now working on a
          preliminary transceiver design suitable for speeds to 200
          Mbps, as well as drivers and software for synchronization and
          scheduling.  Work also continues on algorithm simulation and



Westine                                                        [Page 16]

Internet Monthly Report                                        July 1991


          system robustness.

     3.   The DARTnet time-synchronization subnet involving ten routers
          and over 18 test hosts has been completely redesigned.
          Preliminary measurements suggest an ultimate timekeeping
          accuracy well below a millisecond is possible.

     4.   We have received and installed an Austron Global Positioning
          System timing receiver. This incredible device provides time
          to within 150 nanoseconds relative to UTC and argues with the
          campus surveyor as well. It now synchronizes one of our
          fuzzballs. Along with the local utility Delmarva Power, we are
          working on timekeeping support for SPARCstations.

     5.   We continue to work on audio, video and interface gear to
          support real-time conferencing. We plan to use this for
          DARTnet experiments in synchronization, Highball applications
          and general teleconferencing. Dave Mills attended the
          Symposium on Gigabit Networks held in Washington, DC.

          Dave Mills (Mills@UDEL.EDU)

WISCNET
-------

     The WiscNet Board of Directors met on July 25, 1991 at the
     University of Wisconsin - Stout campus in Menomonie Wisconsin.
     Business included:

        New officers were elected.

        Charters for the finance, membership, and publicity committees
        were approved.

        The finance committee reported on procedures for member fee
        billing including penalties for late payment and on alternatives
        for maintenance of T1 multiplexor equipment.

           The user services committee reported on activities including
           recommendations for additional NIC support.

           A proposal for maintenance of electronic mailing lists was
           approved.

           An upgrade of the Marquette - UW-Milwaukee link from 56K DDS
           to T1 was approved.

           The operating agent report included:



Westine                                                        [Page 17]

Internet Monthly Report                                        July 1991


             The UW-Madison - State network T1 links have been switched
             to fiber.

             V.35 cables have been reworked to reduce short outages.

             UPS equipment is now being monitored through Cisco router
             secondary console ports.

             Bills have been sent to members for 91-92 fiscal year.

             Developed automated tool to load router configurations.

             Distributed WiscNet information packet to prospective new
             members.

             Marquette University and UW-Milwaukee traffic is now
             flowing over WiscNet rather than over back door to UIUC.

             Limited traffic statistics were distributed.  The UW-
             Milwaukee link (224Kbps) is about 50% busy and the
             Marquette - UW-Milwaukee link (56Kbps) is about 70% busy.

     Michael Dorl (dorl@macc.wisc.edu)




























Westine                                                        [Page 18]

Internet Monthly Report                                        July 1991


DIRECTORY SERVICES
------------------

This section of the Internet Monthly is devoted to efforts working to
develop directory services that are for, or effect, the Internet.  We
would like to encourage any organization with news about directory
service activities to use this forum for publishing brief monthly news
items.  The current reporters list includes:

        o IETF OSIDS Working Group [X]
        o IETF DISI Working Group [X]
        o Field Operational X.500 Project
           - ISI
           - Merit
           - PSI [X]
           - SRI
        o National Institute of Standards and Technology [X]
        o North American Directory Forum [X]
        o OSI Implementor's Workshop [X]
        o PARADISE Project
        o PSI DARPA/NNT X.500 Project [X]
        o PSI WHITE PAGES PILOT [X]
        o Registration Authority Committee (ANSI USA RAC) [X]
        o U.S. Department of State, Study Group D,
            MHS Management Domain subcommittee (SG-D MHS-MD) [X]

                [X] indicates no report this month

Steve Hotz (hotz@isi.edu)
DS Report Coordinator

FOX -- FIELD OPERATIONAL X.500 PROJECT
--------------------------------------

     The FOX project is a DARPA and NSF sponsored effort to provide a
     basis for operational X.500 deployment in the NREN/Internet.  This
     work is being carried out at Merit, NSYERNet/PSI, SRI and ISI.  ISI
     is the main contractor and responsible for project oversight.

     ISI
     ---

        Jon Postel convened an early morning meeting of the FOX group at
        the Atlanta IETF, which included participants from all of the
        FOX contractors as well as Tim Howes (UofM), Richard Colella
        (NIST), and Paul Mockapetris (DARPA).

        Hotz also participated in the OSI-DS and DISI working group



Westine                                                        [Page 19]

Internet Monthly Report                                        July 1991


        meetings, and met informally to discuss FOX concerns with
        various members of the X.500 community.

        Steve Hotz (hotz@ISI.EDU)

     MERIT
     -----

         o Submitted schemas for the following as Internet Drafts:
            - Information Resources
            - K-12 Educational Resources
            - Libraries
            - NIC Profiles

         o Continued development of an e-mail based registration
           and query system for NIC profiles and K-12 people and
           resources.

         o Installed ISODE 7.0 and new DSA for FOX related X.500
           activities.

         o Convened MichNet working group on X.500.  The goals of this
           group are to promote the use of X.500 among statewide Merit
           members and affiliates.

         o Developed a plan for coordination and evolution of
           network infrastructure information and WHOIS information.

         o Installed sendmail with X.500/alias lookup for Sprintmail
           gateway.

         o Mark Knopper, Chris Weider, and Tim Howes participated in
           OSI-DS and DISI working groups at the Atlanta IETF meeting.

        Mark Knopper (mak@merit.edu)


     SRI
     ----

        SRI continued correspondence with NIST regarding problems with
        running Custos 0.1.1.  NIST fixed a bug in the Custos DBMS
        library, and sent replacement code files to SRI.  SRI will test
        the patches in early August.

        Russ Wright (LBL) and Ruth Lang completed the compilation of the
        keyword cross-reference list, formatted the document, and held
        reviews with implementation description authors and with the



Westine                                                        [Page 20]

Internet Monthly Report                                        July 1991


        DISI working group.  Near the end of the month, a DISI document,
        "A Catalog of Available X.500 Implementations," was published as
        an Internet-Draft.  As a results of comments received at the
        DISI meeting at the Atlanta IETF meeting, the document will be
        revised, sent out for final review to DISI, and subsequently
        submitted as an FYI RFC.

        Chris Weider (Merit), Mark Knopper (Merit), and Ruth Lang held a
        phone meeting to discuss three related topics:

          (1) The future of "o=Internet@ou=Site Contacts" and
              "o=Internet@ou=WHOIS".
          (2) The status of two OSI-DS Internet-Draft Documents
              pertaining to the schema and tree structure for
              network infrastructure information.
          (3) Replication of "ou=Site Contacts" and "ou=WHOIS".

        Merit and SRI will work together to combine the two branches of
        "o=Internet" described in (1) in order to reduce redundancy.
        The results of this work will be reflected in the two Internet-
        Draft documents mentioned in (2). In addition, each agreed to
        pursue the configuration of hardware resources required to
        support the replication described in (3).  Progress on these
        areas will be reported in subsequent monthly reports.

        Ruth Lang will participate in the Interop 91 panel session
        entitled "Fielding Operational X.500 Directory Services.
        Presentation materials for that panel session were prepared and
        delivered to Interop in early August as required.

        SRI responded to several queries regarding the availability of
        NIC WHOIS data; these queries had been posted to the ietf and
        tcp-ip mailing lists.

        Ruth Lang and Ken Harrenstien participated in a FOX project
        phone conference meeting held on July 9.

        Ruth Lang attended IETF held in Atlanta during the week of July
        29.

        Ruth Lang (rlang@nisc.sri.com)

PARADISE
--------

     Within PARADISE, PTT Telecom (the Netherlands), PTT Switzerland and
     Telecom Finland are performing a study on the suitability and
     expected acceptance of X.500-based Directory Services for European



Westine                                                        [Page 21]

Internet Monthly Report                                        July 1991


     PTT's and service providers.  An extensive questionnaire has been
     formulated and was distributed this month with a view of eliciting
     information for this study.  Respondents are expected to receive an
     overview of the results of the non-confidential parts of the
     questionnaire towards the end of 1991.

     The PTT Telecom Research Laboratories based in Groningen, the
     Netherlands, is also offering diagnostic test-services for the
     PARADISE participants for the duration of the pilot.  PTT Research
     is a participant in the development of test-suites for X.500
     Directory tests within the European CTS2 project.  In this project
     a group of European companies have written and implemented test
     suites for the Session, Presentation, ROSE, ACSE and DAP protocols
     and for both DUAs and DSAs.  Of these, the DSA/DAP test suite was
     designed and implemented mainly by a PTT Research group which will
     probably also be involved in establishing test suites for DSP and
     distributed Directory operations.  An EC-accredited CTS2
     Conformance Testing Service will be set up by the end of 1991.  For
     the PARADISE testing service the Groningen labs will use a DANET
     test system which will allow conformance, interoperability and
     robustness testing on specified implementation problems.  For
     further information, contact: John van der Aalst
     (jvanderaalst@eurokom.ie).

     This month's site report is from: AUSTRIA

     Austria is running 3 QUIPU DSAs. The "main" DSA for Austria (called
     "Piranah") is located in Graz and holds general information about
     all universities in Austria.  Additionally it stores detailed
     information about the staff of the University of Technology in
     Graz, e.g. e-mail addresses, phone and fax numbers, postal
     addresses, etc.  The University of Vienna and the University of
     Technology in Vienna have had their own DSAs (called "Rockhopper
     Penguin" and "Yellow-legged Tortoise") since mid-July and have
     started to gather and store information about their local staff.

     The X.500 project of ACONET (the Austrian Scientific Network) is
     entering its second stage now.  The first stage concentrated on the
     establishment of an X.500 service and its technical, functional and
     inter-communicational aspects.  The second stage will focus on the
     development of an Information System for Universities and therefore
     concentrate on organizational and structural aspects as well as on
     the user interface (ACONET will probably  have to develop their own
     user interface).

     We are thinking about storing on an X.500 basis information which
     is to be collected for the following international projects
     supported by the European Commission:



Westine                                                        [Page 22]

Internet Monthly Report                                        July 1991


       "TRACE"   -- concerning relevant information about universities,
                    colleges, etc in Austria; and
       "ERASMUS" -- concerning information which should make it easier
                    to exchange, for example, students or staff from
                    universities in different countries.

     The advantage of an X.500 solution would be that this information
     would be available worldwide (as it should be) and would be stored
     where it is  gathered and administered (in contrast to the TRACE
     approach with their central storage concept).  The contact for the
     Austrian pilot is: Florian Schnabel (schnabel@at.ada.tu-graz.edvz).

     David Goodman (d.goodman@cs.ucl.ac.uk)
     PARADISE Project Manager





































Westine                                                        [Page 23]

Internet Monthly Report                                        July 1991


CALENDAR OF EVENTS
------------------


     Readers are requested to send in dates of events that are
     appropriate for this calendar section.

     1991 CALENDAR

     Sep 3-6         SIGCOMM91, Zurich, Switzerland
                     Bernhard Plattner
     Dec 14-18       OIW, NIST, Gaithersburg, MD


     1992 CALENDAR

     Jan 13-21       ANSI X3T5
     Jan 20-22       RIPE, Amsterdam
     Jan 28-30       ANSI X3S3.3, Tucson, AZ
     Feb 19-20       RARE WG1, Location unknown
     Feb 20-21       RARE Manager Mtg, Location unknown
     Mar 2-6         ANSI X3T5
     Mar 2-6         CAIA '92  8th IEEE Conference on AI Application
     Mar 3-5         ACM CSC, Kansas City, MO
     Mar 9-13        IEEE802 Plenary, Irvine, CA
     Mar 9-13        OIW, NIST, Gaithersburg, MD
     Mar 16-19       Info Netwrk&DataComm, Espoo, FI
     Mar 18-20       Computers, Freedom & Privacy II,
                     Grand Hyatt Hotel, Washington, DC
     Mar 25-27       National Net 92, Washington DC
                     Mike Roberts (roberts@educom.edu)
     Apr 6-16        CCITT SG VII    Geneva, Switzerland
     Apr 21-23       ANSI X3S3.3, Mountaon View, Ca.
     <Spring>        IETF, San Diego, CA
                     Megan Davies (mdavies@nri.reston.va.us)
     May 4-6         ANSI X3T5
     May 4-8         DECUS '92, Atlanta, GA
     May 12-14       Joint Network Conference 3, Innsbruck, Austria
                     (this is the RARE Networkshop - renamed)
     May 18-25       INTEROP92, Washington, D.C.
                     Dan Lynch (dlynch@interop.com)
     May 20-22       IFIP Int'l Conference, Vancouver, Canada
     May 19-29       ISO/IEC JTC 1/SC 21, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada
     Jun 8-12        OIW, NIST, Gaithersburg, MD
     Jun 10-11       RARE WG1, tentative-Location unknown
     Jun 11-12       RARE COSINE MHS MGR, tentative-Location unknown
     Jun 14-17       ICC-SUPERCOMM'92, Chicago, IL
     Jun 15-19       INET92, Kobe, Japan



Westine                                                        [Page 24]

Internet Monthly Report                                        July 1991


                     Jun Murai (jun@wide.ad.jp), KEIO University
     Jun 16-18       ANSI X3S3.3, Minneapolos, MN
     Jul 6-10        IEEE802 Plenary, Bloomington, MN
     Jul 13-17       ANSI X3T5
     Jul 13-24       ISO/IEC JTC1/SC6, San Diego, CA
     Aug 17-20       SIGCOMM, Baltimore, MD
                     Deepinder Sidhu, UMBC
     Sep 14-18       ANSI X3T5
     Sep 21-25       OIW, NIST, Gaithersburg, MD
     Sep 22-24       ANSI X3S3.3, Boston, MA
     Oct 26-30       INTEROP92, San Francisco
                     Dan Lynch (dlynch@interop.com)
     Nov 9-13        ANSI X3T5
     Dec             ANSI X3S3.3, Boulder, CO
     Dec 7-11        DECUS '92, Las Vegas, NV
     Dec 14-18       OIW, NIST, Gaithersburg, MD

     1993 CALENDAR

     Mar 8-12        INTEROP93, Wasington, D.C.
                     Dan Lynch (dlynch@interop.com)
     Mar 8-12        OIW, NIST, Gaithersburg, MD
     May 23-26       ICC'92, Geneva, Switzerland
     Jun 7-11        OIW, NIST, Gaithersburg, MD
     Aug             INET93,  San Francisco Bay Area
     Aug             SIGCOMM, San Francisco
     Sep 13-17       OIW, NIST, Gaithersburg, MD
     Sep 20-31       ISO/IEC JTC1/SC6, Seoul, Korea.
     Oct 25-29       INTEROP93, San Francisco
                     Dan Lynch (dlynch@interop.com)
     Nov 9-13        IEEE802 Plenary, LaJolla, CA
     Dec 6-10        OIW, NIST, Gaithersburg, MD

     1994 CALENDAR

     Apr 18-22       INTEROP94, Washington, D.C.
                     Dan Lynch (dlynch@interop.com)
     Sep 12-16       INTEROP94, San Francisco
                     Dan Lynch (dlynch@interop.com)

     1995 EVENTS

     Sep 18-22       INTEROP95, San Francisco, CA
                     Dan Lynch (dlynch@interop.com)







Westine                                                        [Page 25]
