





~









January 1992


INTERNET MONTHLY REPORTS
------------------------

The purpose of these reports is to communicate to the Internet Research
Group the accomplishments, milestones reached, or problems discovered by
the participating organizations.

     This report is for Internet information purposes only, and is not
     to be quoted in other publications without permission from the
     submitter.

Each organization is expected to submit a 1/2 page report on the first
business day of the month describing the previous month's activities.

These reports should be submitted via network mail to:

     Ann Westine Cooper (Cooper@ISI.EDU)
     NSF Regional reports - Corinne Carroll (ccarroll@NNSC.NSF.NET)
     Directory Services reports - Tom Tignor (TPT2@ISI.EDU)

Requests to be added or deleted from the Internet Monthly report list
should be sent to "cooper@isi.edu".

Back issues of the Internet Monthly Report can be copied via FTP:

     FTP>  nis.nsf.net
     Login: anonymous guest
     ftp> cd imr
     ls
     get IMRYY-MM.TXT

For example, JUNE 1991 is in the file IMR91-06.TXT.






Cooper                                                          [Page 1]

Internet Monthly Report                                     January 1992


TABLE OF CONTENTS

  INTERNET ACTIVITIES BOARD

     IAB MESSAGE  . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  3
     INTERNET RESEARCH REPORTS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  4
        AUTONOMOUS NETWORKS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  4
        END-TO-END SERVICES  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  5
        PRIVACY AND SECURITY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  6
     RESOURCE DISCOVERY AND DIRECTORY SERVICE. . . . . . . . . page  7
     INTERNET ENGINEERING REPORTS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  7

  Internet Projects

     BOLT BERANEK AND NEWMAN, INC.,  . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 10
     CERFNET . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 11
     CONCERT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 12
     CSUNET (CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY NETWORK). . . . . . . page 12
     ISI . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 13
     JVNCNET . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 15
     LOS NETTOS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 17
     MITRE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 17
     NEARNET (NEW ENGLAND ACADEMIC AND RESEARCH NETWORK) . . . page 17
     NNSC, UCAR/BOLT BERANEK and NEWMAN, INC., . . . . . . . . page 18
     NORTHWESTNET  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 19
     NSFNET/ANSNET BACKBONE ENGINEERING. . . . . . . . . . . . page 20
     NSFNET/INFORMATION SERVICES . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 25
     PREPnet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 26
     SAIC. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 26
     SDSC. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 27
     SRI . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 28
     UCL . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 29
     UDEL. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 29
     WISCNET . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 30
     X.400 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 30

  DIRECTORY SERVICES ACTIVITIES

     DIRECTORY SERVICES MESSAGE  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 34
     IETF OSIDS & DISI WORKING GROUPS. . . . . . . . . . . . . page 34
     FOX - FIELD OPERATIONAL X.500 PROJECT . . . . . . . . . . page 36
        ISI. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 36
     PARADISE PROJECT. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 37
     SG-D MHS-MD . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 38

  CALENDAR OF EVENTS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 41





Cooper                                                          [Page 2]

Internet Monthly Report                                     January 1992



IAB MESSAGE

     PASSAGE

     The IAB is descended from an Internet research advisory group set
     up about 1980 by DARPA, with the unlikely name of Internet
     Configuration Control Board, or ICCB.  The ICCB chair was Dave
     Clark of the MIT Laboratory for Computer Science; he had played a
     leading role in the protocol research effort which developed the
     TCP/IP protocols.  Around 1983, DARPA restructured the ICCB into a
     task-force-based Internet Activities Board, or IAB.  Dave Clark
     continued as chair of the new IAB, and he held this post until Vint
     Cerf accepted this responsibility in July, 1989.

     During his 9 years as ICCB/IAB chair, Dave Clark combined wise
     leadership with a keen analytical approach, as the IAB attempted to
     facilitate technology transfer of the Internet architecture from
     research into practice.  The success of this effort, apparent to
     all, owes a significant debt to Clark's leadership.  He has been
     justly honored by SIGCOMM and at Interop for his contributions to
     the Internet.

     In the last few years, Clark has resolved to return to research, to
     work on the "next generation" of networking.  As a result, he
     departed the IAB at the January meeting.  He will be missed.

     SECOND ARCHITECTURE RETREAT

     Last June, the IAB, IESG, and IRSG held a three-day meeting on the
     future of the Internet architecture.  The results of that meeting
     were reported at the August IETF meeting in Atlanta, and were
     recently published in RFC-1287.  To advance this planning work, a
     second retreat was held at BBN in Cambridge, MA, on January 8-9,
     1992.  The results of this meeting will be made available in the
     future.

     STANDARDS ISSUES

     1. ETHERNET MIB

        The IAB concerns about avoiding any possible appearance of
        conflict between the IETF and a corresponding IEEE committee
        are being addressed by the Ethernet MIB Working Group.  The
        IAB therefore approved the Ethernet MIB developed by the
        Working Group to become a Proposed Standard, and it was
        published as RFC-1284.




Cooper                                                          [Page 3]

Internet Monthly Report                                     January 1992


     2. X.500 USER-FRIENDLY NAMING

        The IESG recommended to the IAB that the Internet Draft "Using
        the OSI Directory to achieve User Friendly Naming"
        <draft-ietf-osids-friendlynaming-02> be published as a
        Proposed Standard.  Subsequent discussion of several issues
        with the Working Group chair, Steve Hardcastle-Kille, led to
        an agreement to divide the original memo into two sections:

        (1) A definition of an external representation for potentially
            unambiguous names intended for publication a Proposed
            Standard.

        (2) A description of the User-Friendly-Naming algorithm proper,
            intended for publication as an Experimental RFC.

        The original memo has been withdrawn, pending these changes by
        the working group.

     Bob Braden (braden@isi.edu)

INTERNET RESEARCH REPORTS
-------------------------

     AUTONOMOUS NETWORKS
     -------------------

        I initiated some ANRG "reorganization and regrouping" this
        month. So instead of a report of work and meetings completed, I
        will describe plans for the coming months.

        The planned focus of this years ANRG discussions are not too
        different from those that we have addressed in the past. But I
        would like to try to pursue some of the topics with a bit more
        focus and possibly spawn subgroups of people who will go off and
        really develop ideas in the particular areas.

        1. I already formed a "Unified Routing" subgroup/working-group
        which I will co-chair with Yakov Rekhter (IBM). The focus is to
        flesh out our proposed architecture for inter-domain routing
        that combines and unifies the benefits of hop-by-hop and
        source-demand routing for future, very large AND diverse (e.g.,
        multiple TOS and policy) internets.

        The topic is specialized enough that I thought it would be more
        productive to spin it off from other ANRG meetings and
        discussions and participants.




Cooper                                                          [Page 4]

Internet Monthly Report                                     January 1992


        2. Charging models and how they interact with resource
        management models, setup protocols, and routing. I expect this
        activity to involve  collaboration with some of our E2E
        colleagues.

        3. End-to-end folks have been talking about the resource control
        protocol (setup-like) that will be needed to work in concert
        with their resource management model and mechanisms in the
        switches. There is alot of interaction between this protocol and
        both routing and charging.  Moreover, this is certainly an
        inter-domain protocol whose design must take into account
        autonomy, heterogeneity, etc. The real-time applications
        discussed are of (most ) interest in a large scale, wide area,
        inter-domain context...  Again, I would like to work with some
        of the E2E folks and put more emphasis on these latter issues.

        I don't plan to make inter-domain multicast a separate item
        because it really has to be part of any inter-domain routing
        protocol and has to be a graceful extension of intra-domain
        which Deering et.  al. have well covered. On the other hand, we
        should talk about scaling issues for multicast in the context of
        the abovementioned resource control protocol for real-time
        applications (which are often multicast) and the abovementioned
        inter-domain routing...

        4. Simulation techniques for very large scale networks.  There
        is a critical need for researchers, architects, engineers and
        network operations (configuration people) to be able to simulate
        large networks. This is an appropriate topic for ANRG because
        all of the problems we address and mechanisms we propose are
        intended to work in large heterogeneous networks. These are very
        difficult to characterize using analytical models alone and at
        the same time it is usually not feasible to actually run real
        experiments on the scale of the target system.

        Deborah Estrin (Estrin@USC.EDU)

     END-TO-END SERVICES
     -------------------

        No progress to report this month.

        Bob Braden (Braden@ISI.EDU)








Cooper                                                          [Page 5]

Internet Monthly Report                                     January 1992


     PRIVACY AND SECURITY
     --------------------

        The Privacy and Security Research Group (PSRG) met at ISI on
        January 21-23.  In a precedent setting move, the agenda did not
        include PEM as a topic, nor was PEM discussed during the course
        of the three-day meeting.  Instead the engaged in discussion of
        a number of topics, described below.

        John Linn provided a status report on the IETF CAT WG, which he
        chairs.  Included was a discussion of the preliminary work on a
        authentication/key distribution mechanism that would unify DAS &
        Kerberos mechanisms to the greatest extent possible.

        Russ Housley lead a discussion of security labelling issues,
        based on an earlier paper he has prepared.  As a result of the
        discussion, Russ plans to revise and reissue the paper.

        Russ Housley also provided a status report on the IEEE 802.10
        committee work, for which he recently served as co-chair.  Of
        special interest to the PSRG is ongoing work to develop key
        management protocols undertaken by the IEEE committee.  Other
        ANSI/ISO groups have suggested that the output of this committee
        may be utilized for key distribution by security protocols at
        other (higher) layers, e.g., layer 3 & 4.  It was agreed that
        the key management protocol developed in the course of the SDNS
        program (KMP) did not suffice as it does not provide sufficient
        algorithm independence, although it does provide a good starting
        point.

        Russ also provided a discussion of the problems he envisions if
        the Internet community were to adopt TLSP, the transport layer
        security protocol which is now a draft international standard.
        The difficulty here is how to specify which transport layer
        protocol is being protected by TLSP. (TLSP provides no explicit
        field in which to convey this information, because OSI
        addressing conventions obviate the need for such a field, and
        the protocol field at the IP layer would contain an indication
        of "TLSP".)  Several alternatives were discussed in detail, and
        the most likely outcome appears to be the definition of a
        convergence protocol for use when transporting TLSP over IP.  It
        was observed that, from a pragmatic standpoint, promulgation of
        TLSP may be hampered by the fact that transport layer protocols
        are often embedded within operating systems and thus application
        developers could not exploit a transport layer security protocol
        until such time as operating systems are modified to incorporate
        the protocol.




Cooper                                                          [Page 6]

Internet Monthly Report                                     January 1992


        Steve Kent reviewed the work of the security group from the IAB
        workshop on the future of the Internet, which took place earlier
        in January.  This presentation initiated a discussion on
        completing action items from the workshop, with emphasis on
        development of guidelines for Internet protocols which provide
        security services.  In turn this led to a discussion of goals
        for an Internet security architecture.

        Cliff Neumann initiated a presentation on his work with regard
        to authentication and authorization, but due to time limitations
        this discussion was not completed.  The topic will be near the
        top of the agenda for the next meeting.

        The next PSRG meeting will take place at the University of
        Wisconsin at Madison, on April 29 - May 1.

        Steve Kent <kent@BBN.COM>

     RESOURCE DISCOVERY AND DIRECTORY SERVICE
     ----------------------------------------

        No progress this month.

        Mike Schwartz, (schwartz@cs.colorado.edu)

INTERNET ENGINEERING REPORTS
----------------------------

     1. The IESG received four requests to approve the publication of
        the following Internet Drafts:

        A. "MIME (Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions)" and
           "Representation of Non-ASCII Text in Internet Message
           Headers" jointly as a Proposed Standard.

        B. "A File Format for the Exchange of Images in the Internet"
           as a Proposed Standard.

        C. "Type of Service in the Internet Protocol Suite" as a
           Proposed Standard.

        D. "IP Forwarding Table MIB" as a Proposed Standard.

        Last call notifications were sent to the IETF mailing list by
        the IESG Secretary. This is a new step in the IESG review process
        which was announced at the Santa Fe IETF meeting in November.





Cooper                                                          [Page 7]

Internet Monthly Report                                     January 1992


     2. The next IETF meeting will be held at the Hyatt Islandia in
        San Diego from March 16-20, 1992. The Sunday night reception will
        begin at 6:30 on March 15th. The most recent draft of the meeting
        agenda and schedule was mailed to the IETF mailing list at the end
        of the month. For copies of this information, or for any other
        question about the upcoming meeting, please mail your request to
        ietf-rsvp@nri.reston.va.us.

     3. The following Working Groups were created during the month
        of January:

             IP over Asynchronous Transfer Mode (atm)
             RIP Version II (ripv2)
             DS1/DS3 MIB (trunkmib)
             MHS-DS (mhsds)

     4. There were 21 Internet Draft Actions during the month of
        January 1992.

      (Revised draft (o), New Draft (+) )

        WG             I-D Title  <Filename>
      ------       -------------------------------------------------------
      (charmib)  o Definitions of Managed Objects for Parallel-printer-
                   like Hardware Devices
                             <draft-ietf-charmib-parallelprinter-02.txt>
      (charmib)  o Definitions of Managed Objects for Character Stream
                   Devices
                             <draft-ietf-charmib-charmib-02.txt>
      (charmib)  o Definitions of Managed Objects for RS-232-like Hardware
                   Devices
                             <draft-ietf-charmib-rs232like-03.txt>
      (osids)    o Using the OSI Directory to Achieve User Friendly Naming
                             <draft-ietf-osids-friendlynaming-03.txt,
                              or .ps>
      (osids)    o Naming Guidelines for Directory Pilots
                             <draft-ietf-osids-dirpilots-04.txt, .ps>
      (osids)    o DSA Naming
                             <draft-ietf-osids-dsanaming-02.txt, or .ps>
      (snmpsec)  o SNMP Administrative Model
                             <draft-ietf-snmpsec-admin-02.txt, .ps>
      (snmpsec)  o Definitions of Managed Objects for Administration of
                   SNMP Parties
                             <draft-ietf-snmpsec-mib-02.txt>
      (snmpsec)  o SNMP Security Protocols
                             <draft-ietf-snmpsec-protocols-02.txt, .ps>





Cooper                                                          [Page 8]

Internet Monthly Report                                     January 1992


      (822ext)   o MIME (Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions): Mechanisms
                   for Specifying and Describing the Format of Internet
                   Message Bodies
                             <draft-ietf-822ext-messagebodies-03.txt, .ps>
      (822ext)   o A User Agent Configuration Mechanism For Multimedia
                   Mail Format Information
                             <draft-ietf-borenstein-configmech-03.txt, .ps>
      (822ext)   o Character Mnemonics and Character Sets
                             <draft-ietf-822ext-charsets-02.txt>
      (rreq)     o Type of Service in the Internet Protocol Suite
                             <draft-almquist-tos-02.txt>
      (netfax)   o A File Format for the Exchange of Images in the Internet
                             <draft-ietf-netfax-netimage-02.txt>
      (bgp)      o BGP OSPF Interaction
                              <draft-ietf-bgp-ospfinteract-02.txt>
      (disi)     o An Executive Introduction to Directory Services Using
                   the X.500 Protocol
                              <draft-ietf-disi-execdir-01.txt>
      (none)     + Link Control Protocol
                              <draft-young-linkcontrol-00.txt>
      (none)     + IP and ARP on HIPPI
                              <draft-renwick-hippilan-00.txt>
      (none)     + A Standard for the Transmission of IP Datagrams Over
                   SNA Networks Using LU6.2 Conversations
                              <draft-stevenson-ipoversna-00.txt>
      (none)     + Identity Server
                              <draft-bernstein-idserver-00.txt>
      (osids)    + A String Representation of Distinguished Names
                              <draft-ietf-osids-distnames-00.txt, .ps>

     5. Five RFC's based on IETF WG activity were produced during the
        month of January, 1992

       (Standard (S), Proposed Standard (PS), Draft Standard (DS),
       Experimental (E), Informational (I) )

       RFC  Status WG         Title
     ------- -- --------     ----------------------------------------------
     RFC1285 PS  (fddimib)  FDDI Management Information Base
     RFC1292  I  (disi)     A Catalog of Available X.500 Implementations
     RFC1293 PS  (iplpdn)   Inverse Address Resolution Protocol
     RFC1294 PS  (iplpdn)   Multiprotocol Interconnect over Frame Relay
     RFC1297  I  (ucp)      NOC Internal Integrated Trouble Ticket System
                             Functional Specification Wishlist

     Standards( 3),  Experimental( 0), Informational( 2)

     Steve Coya <scoya@NRI.Reston.VA.US>



Cooper                                                          [Page 9]

Internet Monthly Report                                     January 1992


INTERNET PROJECTS
-----------------

BOLT BERANEK AND NEWMAN INC.
----------------------------

     Terrestrial Wideband Network (TWBNet)

     During December, we completed the upgrade of the TWBNet backbone
     nodes with intelligent I/O interfaces (BI4s) for the trunk
     connections and a new software release.  As of the end of January,
     the network has been stable for over a month.  As a result of the
     upgrade, the end-to-end delay of the network has been reduced by
     about 50%, and the per node forwarding delay has been cut by more
     than 67%.  In addition, the new system provides better bandwidth
     utilization, finer-grain allocation of stream capacity, and
     increased tolerance to trunk line noise and errors.

     Inter Domain Policy Routing

     Working with SAIC to complete the "gated" version of IDPR continues
     to be our highest priority task.  We continued our implementation
     and testing work on the IDPR configuration database software for
     'gated' through January.  This work is very close to being
     completed and should be finished by the middle of February.

     Once there exists a "gated" implementation of IDPR that is
     available to anyone with a UNIX system, we can begin to experiment
     with IDPR in the "real" Internet.  We are in the midst of trying to
     line up participants for IDPR experiments within the Internet.
     Interested participants should contact Martha Steenstrup at
     msteenstrup@bbn.com.

     ST Conferencing

     During January, a total of 9 video conferences, 2 demonstrations,
     and 2 SIMNET exercises were conducted.  Three of the conferences
     were three-site conferences, and the rest included only two sites.
     Sponsored events included ALSP meetings and demonstrations for
     Major Strassman.  Two conferences with UCL (an OMG meeting and a
     PSG meeting) could not be conducted due to packet loss and delay on
     the US/UK fatpipe.  Current investigation indicates that the
     traffic being presented to the SURA T/20 intermittently exceeds the
     capacity of the 384 kbps fatpipe.  BBN developers are currently
     investigating this problem and possible solutions.






Cooper                                                         [Page 10]

Internet Monthly Report                                     January 1992


     During January, we replaced the butterfly gateways at AMES, ISI,
     DARPA, and LANL with T/20 gateways.  Due to line testing delays,
     Ft.  Leavenworth is scheduled for installation as a T/20-based
     conferencing site in early February.  UCL will also be done in
     February.  LANL is currently unable to conference with sites that
     still use butterfly gateways (BBN, UCL, RADC, hublet).
     Conferencing at the other sites is operational, except at AMES,
     where there is currently no active conferencing suite.

     Jil Westcott <westcott@BBN.COM>

CERFNET
-------

     Over the next few months several sites will be added to CERFnet.
     DIAL n' CERF continues to be a popular alternative for companies
     and individuals with lower start-up needs.  Since its installation,
     in 1990, DIAL n' CERF has greatly increased the number and types of
     sites accessing CERFnet and the Internet.

     Local Installations

     Sites scheduled to be installed in February and March are GTE
     Federal Systems, Network General, City of Hope, Colorsystem
     Technology, Digital Sound, Mark V Systems, Peregrine Systems, and
     Pt. Loma Nazarene College.

     International Installations

     The CICESE Institute located in Ensenada, Mexico came online
     January 20. The institute has a 56 kbps satellite link to the San
     Diego Supercomputer Center.

     In the final stages of planning is a link to The Federal University
     of Rio de Janeiro (UFRJ).  UFRJ is expected to be online in the
     second quarter of 1992.  The connection between CERFnet and UFRJ is
     intended to provide, among other things, Internet access to a
     regional network of research institutions located within the state
     of Rio de Janiero.

     Other News

     In January, CERFnet exhibited at the UniForum tradeshow at the
     Moscone Center in San Francisco, California.







Cooper                                                         [Page 11]

Internet Monthly Report                                     January 1992


     Pushpendra Mohta represented CERFnet at the recent Advanced Topics
     Seminar at MERIT.  The seminar was held in Ann Arbor, Michigan
     January 22-24.

     CERFnet will host the seminar, Hands-on Introduction to the
     Internet, instructed by Dr. Jack Pope, on March 4, 1992.  For more
     information contact Barbara Massey by sending e-mail to
     masseyb@cerf.net.

     by Carlos Robles <roblesc@cerf.net>

CONCERT
-------

     The CONCERT staff held an Introductory TCP/IP tutorial for
     representatives from several of the smaller North Carolina
     Universities and Colleges which will soon be connecting to the
     CONCERT network. This is one in a series of tutorials being
     presented by the CONCERT staff to assist the schools in setting up
     their local networks and connecting to the CONCERT network and the
     Internet.

     CONCERT Network is offering an Internet Gopher as an aid to the new
     NC Universities and Colleges connecting to the Internet.  The
     gopher, running on gopher.concert.net allows easy access to CONCERT
     related documents and software, new-user information, and other
     Gopher servers.

     Jack Drescher of CONCERT will co-chair a new IETF Working Group
     with Ari Ollikainen of Lawrence Livermore Labs on "Teleconference
     Architecture".

     Lees-McRae College was connected this month as the newest member of
     the CONCERT network.

     by Tom Sandoski <tom@concert.net>

CSUNET (THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY NETWORK)
-----------------------------------------------

     The California State University network installed new software to
     protect its CAP ports which allow dial-up access to the CSUnet
     member and Internet resources.  With the new user interface, users
     without a password using the TELNET gateway can no longer gain
     access to non-CSUnet member hosts.  This will help close up a
     security "hole".

     Mike Marcinkevicz (mike_marcinkevicz@qmbridge.CalState.EDU)



Cooper                                                         [Page 12]

Internet Monthly Report                                     January 1992


ISI
---

     GIGABIT NETWORKING

     Work on ATOMIC network included numerous discussions with Caltech
     on hardware issues relating to the MOSAIC chips.  Have determined
     the likely direction to be taken for the host interface if one were
     to be designed for ATOMIC.  We wish to assure that the Memoryless
     MOSAIC addresses a large portion of host memory.  This allows
     packets to be copied directly from the network channel into kernel
     packet buffers, eliminating any device<===>kernel copying.  This
     would be accomplished via mapping the high 64k of MOSAIC memory
     into host memory via 16-bit address extension mapping registers.

     Held separate discussions concerning ATOMIC with representatives
     from Honeywell Research and Hughes.  We continue to look for a
     commercial partner who can supply us with fiber-optic transmission
     capability for ATOMIC at a reasonable price per interface.

     Designed integration of IP/SQ into DARTNET SPARC routers.  Have
     begun implementation of same in preparation of testing IP/SQ in
     DARTNET under realistic conditions.  IP/SQ SPARC host algorithm
     implementation seems to be working at this point.

     Greg Finn (finn@ISI.EDU)

     INFRASTRUCTURE

     Joyce Reynolds attended the RIPE meetings in Amsterdam, Jan 16 -
     23, and presented a paper on, "User Services Planning in the
     Internet".  Jon Postel attended the IAB meetings in Boston,
     Massachusetts, January 6-10, 1992.

     Six RFCs were published this month.

        RFC 1292:  Lang, R., (SRI) R. Wright (LBL), "A Catalog of
                   Avaliable X.500 Implementations", January 1992.

        RFC 1293:  Bradley, T., and C. Brown, "Inverse Address
                   Resolution Protocol", Wellfleet Communications, Inc.,
                   January 1992.

        RFC 1294:  Bradley, T., and C. Brown, (Wellfleet Communications,
                   Inc.,) and A. Malis, "Multiprotocol Interconnect Over
                   Frame Relay", January 1992.





Cooper                                                         [Page 13]

Internet Monthly Report                                     January 1992


        RFC 1995:  The North American Directory Forum, "User Bill of
                   Rights for Entries and Listings in the Public
                   Directory", January 1992.

        RFC 1996:  Lottor, M., "Internet Growth (1981-1991)", SRI
                   International, January 1992.

        RFC 1997:  Johnson, D., "NOC Internal Integrated Trouble Ticket
                   System Functional Specification Wishlist ("NOC TT
                   Requirements")", Merit Network. Inc., January 1992.

     Ann Westine Cooper (Cooper@ISI.EDU)

     MULTIMEDIA CONFERENCING

     A significant packet video milestone was achieved on DARTnet this
     month.  Four sites (BBN, ISI, MIT, PARC) communicated by packet
     video for the first time in an experimenters' teleconference, and
     were joined by four others (MITRE, SRI, UDel, UMass) using only
     packet audio.  UDel has since brought up packet video as well, and
     LBL and MITRE will follow.  All sites used Concept codecs.  MIT
     used the 386 PC platform they developed; the other sites used
     SPARCstations and the Packet Video Program (PVP) developed by ISI.
     PVP has been augmented to operate in a new mode using UDP and IP
     multicasting in addition to the existing ST-II protocol mode.  PVP
     has also been modified to use a video header format compatible with
     the MIT implementation.  At PARC, the new version of the Concept
     codec was interfaced to the SPARC using the raw-byte-sync mode
     added to the hsis driver last month by ISI.  At ISI and BBN, old
     versions of the Concept codec were made to interoperate with new
     versions through additional code in PVP.

     The document, "The Connection Control Protocol: Architecture
     Overview" was completed this month.  It describes the model within
     which the CCP was framed and the motivation for this approach to
     multiple user, multiple media session orchestration.  The file can
     be retrieved electronically via anonymous FTP from venera.isi.edu.
     It is located in the pub directory as mmc-ccp-arch.ps along with
     other mmc-* documents (see mmc-README.txt for further details).












Cooper                                                         [Page 14]

Internet Monthly Report                                     January 1992


     Steve Casner presented a talk on High-Definition Image Transfer
     Over Packet Networks at the DARPA HD Display Technology Information
     Exchange Conference.

     Steve Casner, Eve Schooler (casner@ISI.EDU, schooler@ISI.EDU)

JVNCNET
-------

     I. General information

        A. How to reach us:

           1-800-35-TIGER  (from anywhere in the United States)
           by e-mail
                   NOC:  noc@jvnc.net
                   Service desk:  service@jvnc.net
           by mail:  U.S. mail address:
           Princeton University
           B6 von Neumann Hall
           Princeton, NJ  08544
           (Director: Sergio Heker)

        B. Hours

           NOC:  24 hours/day, seven days a week
           Service desk:  9:00 to 5:00 pm, M - F (except holidays)

        C. Other info available on-line from NICOL
           Telnet to nicol.jvnc.netS.
           Login ID is nicol and no password.

     II. New Information

        A. RFCs on-line

           To obtain RFCs from the official JvNCnet repository
           (two methods)

           ftp nicol.jvnc.net; username:  nicol;  password: <your
           email address>
           RFC automailer
           Send email to sendrfc@jvnc.net.  Subject line is RFCxxxx.
           xxxx represents the RFC number.  RFCs with three digits
           only need three digits in the request.






Cooper                                                         [Page 15]

Internet Monthly Report                                     January 1992


        B.  Operational information

            JvNCnet availability for November 1991 and December 1991 are
            99.92% and 99.76%, respectively.

        C.  New on-line members (fully operational December 1991)

            Monmouth County College, West Long Branch, NJ
            New York Hospital, New York, NY
            Ramapo College of New Jersey, Mahwah, NJ
            Advanced Media Laboratory of Samsung Electronics,
               Lawrenceville, NJ
            Seton Hall University, South Orange, NJ
            United Nations Development Program, New York, NY
            William Paterson College, Wayne, NJ
            St. Peters College, Jersey City, NJ
            Bryant College, Smithfield, RI
            Taiwan Ministry of Education, Republic of Taiwan

        D.  JvNCnet Internet Network Applications Symposium

            More than 180 people from the academic, business, research,
            educational, and library communities attended the seminar on
            January 24, 1992 at Princeton University to learn about the
            Internet and its on-line spectrum of info-bases, resources
            and applications.

            Attendees began to understand, through a variety of clear
            and concise presentations and "live" demonstrations, that a
            wide-assortment of expertise is available through electronic
            communication and how this "on-line" teamwork plays a key
            role in speeding problem-solving, increasing productivity
            and caliber of performance of personnel at all levels.  They
            also began to recognize that Internet communication and
            knowledge-base usage becomes integrated into the daily
            operations of a business person, researcher, scientist,
            librarian, or teacher.

            Specialized electronic databases, library card catalogs,
            interactive servers such as Archie or WAIS (for locating
            public domain software or general information, respectively,
            were described.  Examples of high performance computing
            resources also received focus.  The group also saw the
            searchable text qualities during demonstrations of the Dow
            Jones News Retrieval (JvNCnet-accessible, February 1992) and
            LEXIS/NEXIS resources.  Student's learning (communication,
            thinking, and subject skills) at the K-12 level appears to
            receive substantial enhancement through networking



Cooper                                                         [Page 16]

Internet Monthly Report                                     January 1992


            activities. The value of and how K-12/networking may benefit
            children were discussed. The seminar tried to address a
            variety of interests and professional fields.

            For more information on the Symposium Program, send email to
            "symposium@jvnc.net" or call 1-800-35-TIGER.

            by Rochelle Hammer (hammer@jvnc.net)

LOS NETTOS
----------

     A couple of outages caused major rerouting.  This caused one router
     to carry all of the Los Nettos traffic and further caused the
     router to choke. This has made it clear that our AGS/2's need
     upgrading to AGS/3's or AGS+'s.  Our upgrade order is in progress.

     PacBell restored the T1 link from Caltech to JPL to the normal
     facilities. This link had been on a patch for several months.

     Walt Prue (Prue@ISI.EDU)

MITRE Corporation
-----------------

     Allison Mankin attended the DARTnet Workshop and the CNRI Gigabit
     Workshop.  She and Maryann Perez have recently produced
     visualizations of the cumulative delay of bursts across a simulated
     ATM network.

     Work has begun on an analysis of OSI packet filtering.  Because of
     the added protocol layers, not all decision information is
     contained in each CLNP packet, making filtering more difficult than
     for IP.  A white paper will be written during February and
     circulated for comments.

     Walt Lazear, (lazear@gateway.mitre.org)

NEARNET
-------

     NEARnet has grown to 118 members.

     John Curran participated in the Electronic Networking and
     Publishing Conference in New York.

     NEARnet's connectivity to the NSFNET was recently improved by the
     installation of a second T1 connection.  This connection will



Cooper                                                         [Page 17]

Internet Monthly Report                                     January 1992


     provide a diverse route for traffic and should improve NEARnet's
     NSFNET availability.

     The January 1992 issue of the electronic bulletin "NEARnet This
     Month" has been distributed.  Past issues of the bulletin are
     available via anonymous FTP at nic.near.net, in the directory
     /newsletters/nearnet_this_month.

     by John Rugo  <jrugo@nic.near.net>


NNSC, UCAR/BOLT BERANEK and NEWMAN, INC.
----------------------------------------

     Online information at the NNSC is available by anonymous FTP and
     also through the NNSC Info-Server, which sends files by electronic
     mail.  We are in the process of revising the complete collection.

     Documents are stored in Unix "paths", e.g., "directory"/"filename".
     Each directory has an index file, with the filename index-
     directory.  path: "directory"/index-"directory".  There is one help
     file, with identical copies in each directory.  path:
     "directory"/help

     To get files by anonymous ftp, give the following set of commands:

             ftp nnsc.nsf.net
             login: anonymous
             password: guest
             cd "directory"
             get "filename"

     To order files from the Info-Server, send a message to
     info@nnsc.nsf.net with the following text in the body of the
     message:

             Request: "directory"
             Topic: "filename"

     New or revised documents in the NNSC collection are:

         nsfnet/referral-list:  The NNSC Network Provider Referral List,
         revised. If you have changes, please send them to
         "nnsc-staff@nnsc.nsf.net".

         nsfnet/sites:  The Site List from the NSF Network Newsletter
         Map, revised.




Cooper                                                         [Page 18]

Internet Monthly Report                                     January 1992


         isoc/index-isoc:  The Internet Society (ISOC).  The NNSC has
         begun a collection of official ISOC documents.

         rfc/rfc1290.txt:  The newest For-Your-Information report,
         FYI 10, a.k.a. RFC 1290, by J.  Martin, "There's Gold in
         them thar Networks!".

     The NNSC online information collection now has ten directories,
     each of which corresponds to a Request: category in the Info-
     Server.

         calendar        Events of Interest to the Internet Community
         iesg            IETF Steering Group
         ietf            Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
         info            About the info-server
         internet-drafts Documents Proposed to Be RFCs
         isoc            Internet Society (ISOC)
         nsfnet          Documents about the NSFNET, prepared by
                         the NNSC
         phonebook       On-line version of the Internet Manager's
                         Phonebook
         resource-guide  NNSC's Own Guide to Internet Treasures
         rfc             Official documents of the Internet Activities
                         Board

     The NNSC Staff distributed several extra copies of the Internet
     Manager's Phonebook to each of the NSFNET regional mid-level
     networks.

     The NNSC Staff is also working with GSI and various network service
     providers to help improve interaction at the DDN NIC.

     Charlotte Mooers <mooers@nnsc.nsf.net>

NORTHWESTNET
------------

     In January NorthWestNet Executive Director Eric Hood was elected
     president of the Federation of American Research Networks (FARNET).
     Hood has been NorthWestNet's representative to FARNET since 1989
     and has served on its Board of Directors since 1991. FARNET is a
     non-profit organization whose mission is "to advance the use of
     computer networks to improve research and education."  Its members
     include networks such as ANS, MERIT, CERFnet, PSINet, CICnet and
     NYSERnet.

     NorthWestNet has released a 300-page guide to the Internet,
     covering resources such as electronic mail, file transfer, remote



Cooper                                                         [Page 19]

Internet Monthly Report                                     January 1992


     login, discussion groups, online library catalogues, and
     supercomputer access.  The NorthWestNet User Services Internet
     Resource Guide is written both as a how-to tutorial for the
     Internet beginner and as a reference manual for the more
     experienced user.  Copies may be purchased from NorthWestNet.

     NorthWestNet
     15400 SE 30th Place, Suite 202          Phone: (206) 562-3000
     Bellevue, WA  98007                     Fax:   (206) 562-4822

     Dr. Eric S. Hood, Executive Director
     Dan L. Jordt, Director of Technical Services
     Schele Gislason, Administrative Assistant

     by Schele Gislason <schele@nwnet.net>

NSFNET/ANSNET BACKBONE ENGINEERING
----------------------------------

     Summary
     =======

     The T3 network continued to perform reliably during the month of
     January.  New routing and system software was installed for
     improved performance and reliability.  A 3rd (primary) and 4th
     (backup) T1/T3 interconnect gateway was installed for redundancy
     and load balancing. Additional traffic migration to the T3 network
     is scheduled to continue during February.

     The total inbound packet count for the T1 network was
     11,104,573,692, up 14.7% from December.  445,365,908 of these
     packets entered from the T3 network.  The total inbound packet
     count for the T3 network was 1,875,530,652, down 15.1% from
     December. 377,968,661 of these packets entered from the T1 network.
     The combined total inbound packet count for the T1 and T3 networks
     (less cross network traffic) was 12,156,769,775, up 11.9% from
     December. T3 backbone traffic represented about 15% of total
     traffic.

     The T1 backbone has continued to show signs of congestion, with
     symptoms that include periodic PSP crashes and, at one NSS, a
     recurring disconnect problem between the RCP and a PSP.  In
     addition, short duration T1 circuit outages have reduced the
     stability of the T1 network.

     The plan to test and deploy the new RS/960 T3 technology for Phase
     III of the T3 backbone is now underway.  Detailed plans for testing
     and deployment of the RS/960 DS3 interfaces, new DSU cards, and c-



Cooper                                                         [Page 20]

Internet Monthly Report                                     January 1992


     bit parity support on the DS3 circuits are in progress.  Deployment
     of this hardware on the T3 Research Network is expected in mid-
     February, with the production network deployment to be completed by
     early summer.

     T3 Network Status
     =================

     New T3 Network System Software Release Near Fully Deployed

     A new software build, 3.0.64, is now installed on all but three T3
     ENSS nodes.  This build includes several performance enhancements
     to the T3 and ethernet drivers and microcode for improved buffering
     and reduced forwarding overhead.  There is a fix to an Ethernet
     interface freeze problem; a new link level CRC-32; new net-to-net
     traffic matrix data collection using a sampling technique.  These
     changes are required for further stable migration of traffic from
     the T1 network to the T3 network.

     T3 Routing Software Enhanced

     The new rcp_routed program significantly improves the efficiency of
     distributing or aggregating routing information via internal BGP.
     This also results in decreased convergence time and reduced CPU
     consumption. Also redundant route table entries are eliminated to
     allow larger routing tables over time.  This code also supports a
     bug fix for a problem that caused BGP keepalive packets from being
     sent under certain conditions. Also, a problem involving an
     occasional loss of IS-IS adjacency was fixed.

     An AIX kernel timer system bug caused an interesting interaction
     between the Network Time Protocol daemon and the rcp_routed
     program.  Optimizations were added to the new rcp_routed, which
     caused it to run faster and bring up its routes earlier in the boot
     cycle.  Due to the AIX kernel bug, the NTP daemon would start up
     and have to adjust the system clock by a number of hours.  This
     would confuse the timestamping code in the BGP protocol, which
     caused rcp_routed to crash immediately following a reboot.  A
     subsequent manual restart of the rcp_routed program would be
     successful.  A workaround to this problem is being tested for
     deployment this week.

     T1 Network Update
     =================

     T1 Network NSS Software Problems Due to Congestion

     The increased level of traffic due to existing network growth on



Cooper                                                         [Page 21]

Internet Monthly Report                                     January 1992


     the T1 network has resulted in some continued congestion.  There
     have been several PSP crashes due to a bug in the virtual memory
     system in the RT unix kernel. Congestion is frequently observed on
     NSS 10 (Ithaca), where PSP-10-16 will periodically lose
     connectivity with the RCP.  We are scheduling software upgrades to
     alleviate some of these problems in parallel with the activities to
     support moving this traffic from the T1 to the T3 network.

     T1 Network Intermittent Connectivity Problems

     A recurring intermittent connectivity problem has been observed
     across a number of T1 backbone links.  Router logs and some custom
     reports generated by the routers have recorded very short duration
     circuit outages observed as evidenced by the CSU's transition of
     the Data Carrier Detect (DCD) line.  These events are known to
     several midlevel network operators as "DCD waffles".  While an SNMP
     proxy agent is supported on the T3 network that collects CSU/DSU
     data for all T3 and low speed circuits, we do not have the same
     in-band access to CSU/DSU data on the T1 network.  These
     intermittent DCD waffle events are difficult to correlate with
     other out-of-band T1 circuit performance measurements.  The side
     effects from DCD transitions vary, and may range from a 1-3 second
     pause in data transmission over a circuit to a 2-3 minute event
     during which the system routing will transition and require routing
     convergence to re-establish the availability of a link.  The
     problem is more noticeable at those sites that are connected to the
     T1 network via split E-PSP nodes, where a single T1 circuit is used
     to connect a split E-PSP router to the remote NSS.

     Diagnosis and resolution of this problem has progressed through the
     1) coordination with MCI to improve T1 network circuit monitoring
     and problem resolution, 2) coordination with IBM to analyze and
     improve the RT router response to short duration DCD transitions,
     and 3) design of experiments on the T1 Research Network and
     coordination with regionals to schedule downtime for extended
     testing.  We have identified specific actions in each case that are
     helping to eliminate this problem.

     T1 Network ICMP Network Unreachable Messages

     Due to the increase in routing transitions that occur on the T1
     system, several peer networks have reported excessive ICMP network
     unreachable messages being generated by the T1 network that are
     causing host software problems.  As a result we have implemented a
     change similar to what has already been installed on the T3 system.
     This is an option where we do not generate ICMP network unreachable
     messages across any internal network interfaces that participate in
     IS-IS IGP routing exchanges (e.g. internal token ring & T1 serial).



Cooper                                                         [Page 22]

Internet Monthly Report                                     January 1992


     The E-PSP ethernet interfaces will continue to generate ICMP
     network unreachable messages that are sent external to the T1
     system.

     T1 Network SNMP Monitoring Problems

     Another congestion related symptom is the periodic loss of SNMP
     queries made to T1 backbone nodes.  The circuit problems described
     above combined with low level packet loss due to congestion result
     in occasional loss of SNMP queries and responses between the PSP
     and RCP nodes.  These queries are not retransmitted by UDP.  We are
     working to resolve this problem by reducing the circuit problems
     and better managing the congestion.


     T1/T3 Interconnect Routing Changes Implemented
     ==============================================

     The routing architecture described in the 12/91 report has been
     implemented, with routing advertisements of T3 routes split between
     the two T1/T3 interconnect gateways located at Ann Arbor and
     Houston.  All routes are advertised by both interconnects to nodes
     on the T3 backbone.  The two interconnects back each other up so
     that all traffic will be supported by one if the other is down. The
     San Diego interconnect gateway acts as a "cold" or manually
     switchable backup for the Ann Arbor gateway, and a newly installed
     interconnect gateway at Princeton acts as a cold backup for the
     Houston interconnect. Two more T1/T3 interconnect gateways, a
     primary at Boulder and a secondary at Washington, are being
     scheduled for installation next.  This will allow load sharing
     across three primary T1/T3 interconnect points with backup gateways
     for each primary interconnect.


     T1 to T3 Traffic Migration Plan
     ===============================

     The next set of Autonomous Systems slated for cutover to T3 include
     the Sesquinet and SURAnet regionals.  This cutover is contingent
     upon the full deployment of the latest T3 system software build to
     all nodes on the T3 backbone, which is scheduled for later this
     week.  The next traffic cutover is now tentatively scheduled for
     February 8.  Other regional networks that may follow these cutovers
     include: San Diego, JVNCNet, UIUC, Midnet, Westnet-E, and CICNet.
     Our plan is to migrate the traffic slowly with an emphasis on
     maintaining reliability.





Cooper                                                         [Page 23]

Internet Monthly Report                                     January 1992


     Phase III T3 Network RS/960 T3 Adapter Upgrade
     ==============================================

     System testing of the Phase III T3 network technology is underway,
     and plans for Research Network testing and production network
     deployment are well along.  DS3 circuit C-bit parity testing has
     been performed on the Research Network, and the few problems that
     showed up are now being addressed.  The RS/960-DS3 interfaces for
     the RS/6000 routers have been manufactured and will very shortly be
     deployed on the Research Network.  This includes installation of
     new DSU adapters for the HSSI interface between the router and DSU,
     as well as the C-bit parity implementation and reporting
     capability.

     Test plans that have been generated include the unit testing of all
     IP routing and forwarding for system<->card, and card<->card
     transfers, system testing in a testbed configuration of the various
     permutations of CNSS/ENSS configurations, and finally network
     system level testing on the Research Network.  The final system
     testing will incorporate problem resolution and installation
     procedures, end-to-end performance testing, and routing tests
     including link-state transition/convergence tests, internal &
     external BGP peer session scaling and management, and T1/T3
     interconnect gateway transitions.

     A detailed plan for deployment of the new T3 technology at each
     POP-based CNSS and ENSS site is being finalized.  This plan calls
     for installing the new cards and DSUs on all CNSS routers at a POP,
     and those ENSS routers served by that POP, over a 8-10 hour time
     period during a weekend window (23:00 Friday evening-23:00 Sunday
     evening).  The procedure involves two separate interruptions of T3
     connectivity.  The T1 network will be configured for regional
     backup use where convenient during the 8-10 hour transition period,
     and the safety net circuits will be used for redundant routing to
     avoid flash cuts wherever possible.  The deployment will begin in
     the Northwest and migrate east.  Once started, it is expected to
     last for two months.

     The training of multiple deployment teams involving IBM, Merit,
     ANS, and MCI personnel has started and will continue with practice
     deployments that are scheduled on the Research Network which follow
     the same procedures that will be performed on the production
     network.

     Jordan Becker (becker@ans.net)          Mark Knopper (mak@merit.edu)
     Advanced Network & Services Inc.        Merit Network, Inc.





Cooper                                                         [Page 24]

Internet Monthly Report                                     January 1992


NSFNET/INFORMATION SERVICES
---------------------------

     The number of networks configured for announcement on the NSFNET
     backbones increased during the month of January, as did the overall
     traffic.  The total connected nets now number 4,526, with 1,496
     networks of this total representing foreign sites and 1,160
     networks also configured for announcement on the T3 backbone.

     Backbone routing and the status of the T3 network were among
     several topics discussed at the NSFNET Advanced Topics Seminar
     sponsored by Merit Network, Inc.  and held in Ann Arbor, MI January
     23 and 24.  Richard Binder of CNRI opened the session with "The
     National Gigabit Testbeds: A Prelude to the Future."  High Speed
     Switching was discussed by Kahlid Ahmad of Bell-Northern Research.
     Dave Piscitello of Bellcore addressed SMDS and SMDS Network
     Management, while Tony Hain of ESnet gave an overview of Fast-
     Packet, an SMDS WAN implementation plan for ESnet.  The evolution
     and current specifications for Border Gateway Protocol version 3
     were topics for Dennis Ferguson of CA*net, and Peter Ford of the
     Los Alamos National Laboratory spoke on NREN engineering.  Mathi
     Packiam of IBM discussed future T3 enhancements on performance.
     Several members of the Merit Internet Engineering staff
     participated in presentations, including Jessica Yu with a
     discussion of backbone routing, Mark Knopper with the summary and
     overview of T3, and Sue Hares on OSI/IDRP.

     Elise Gerich of Internet Engineering was the Merit representative
     to RIPE in Amsterdam, January 19-23.  Gerich also participated in
     the FEPG and EOWG meetings of the Federal Networking Council in
     Washington, D.C.  Susan Hares, of Internet Engineering, attended
     the ANSI S3X3.3 meeting. Gerich, Hares and Yu are Merit's members
     to the Routing and Addressing Working Group (ROAD) sponsored by
     CNRI.  Attendees of the January JVNCnet conference were "Navigating
     the Internet" with Pat Smith of Merit/NSFNET Information Services
     as she discussed the varied resources available to network users.
     The NSFNET Executive Committee met in Ann Arbor on January 27th,
     and the Partners convened on the 28th.

     Guests at the Merit Network Operations Center included a delegation
     of Japanese researchers interested in high-speed networking and
     NSFNET endeavors in this arena.

     "Making Your NSFNET Connection Count," sponsored by Merit Network,
     Inc. and hosted by NevadaNet in Las Vegas, Nevada will be held June
     1 and 2.  This is a change from earlier announced dates.  This
     seminar is an opportunity to learn how national and regional
     networks are an integral part of the revolution in computer



Cooper                                                         [Page 25]

Internet Monthly Report                                     January 1992


     networking as they are used to enrich academic resources, enhance
     teaching and expand library collections.  The proceedings will be
     held in a newly built facility on the campus of the University of
     Nevada, Las Vegas.  This specially designed facility provides
     state-of-the-art audio/visual equipment and support services.
     Microcomputers connected through NevadaNet to NSFNET will be
     provided on-site in a demonstration room.  Resource people and
     program speakers will be available to help attendees access remote
     facilities.  Donna Cox, NCSA; Art St. George, University of New
     Mexico; Tom Grundner, National Public Telecomputing Network; George
     Brett, MCNC; Ann Okerson, ARL; Linda Delzite, NPTN; and Phil Gross,
     ANS, are among the scheduled speakers.  Requests for details and
     the seminar agenda may be made to seminar@merit.edu or 1-800-66-
     MERIT.

     Jo Ann Ward (jaw@merit.edu)

PREPNET
-------

     PREPnet had four new members in January.  Immaculata College will
     use a dial-up 9.6Kbps connection to the terminal server in
     Philadelphia. PALINET will be connected to the Philadelphia hub via
     a 56Kbps link. Albright College will be connected to the Allentown
     hub via a 56Kbps link.  Biological Detection Systems has a backdoor
     connection via Carnegie Mellon.

     PREPnet NIC (prepnet+@andrew.cmu.edu)

SAIC
----
     During the month of January, more of the gated parser was
     completed.  It appears that we have finally achieved agreement with
     BBN on most of the details that were in flux before.  A new
     time_spec format was agreed upon which will be added to the parser
     shortly.

     The interface to the IDPR kernel has been redesigned as well as the
     internal data structures.  Most of the tables have been replaced
     with radix trees.  Allowing source policy checks for received
     packets will require some modification to ip_input.c, something
     we've wanted to avoid.  However, the fix should be little more than
     a single function call from ipintr, so folks who have their own
     source should be able to adapt easily.

     The syscall interface has been replaced with an ioctl interface
     which also reduces the number of stock BSD 4.3 files that must be
     modified by two.



Cooper                                                         [Page 26]

Internet Monthly Report                                     January 1992


     Planned Activities:

     Integration of the parser and database into gated.  This is
     expected to require a large level of effort, but will lead into
     integration of the databse with all other modules.  VGP should be
     the first module to actually use the new database.  It is scheduled
     for completion by the end of February.

     A new version of the MIB will be ready by the end of February that
     will match recent changes in configuration as well as fix problems
     in the old MIB.  Representation of policies is still an issue that
     must be resolved.

     Robert "Woody" Woodburn (woody@sparta.com)

SDSC
----

     Network analysis project

     Research efforts are continuing in the development of systematic
     methodologies for network analysis and performance testing. We
     completed another collaborative investigation into international
     traffic characterization between Japanese and other nations.  We
     are now focusing on traffic characterization for data collected at
     major network interconnection points, as well as the NSFNET
     backbone network.

     NREN Engineering project

     As part of the NREN engineering activities we discussed networking
     objectives with agency staff during meetings in Washington, DC this
     month. (17 and 23-24 January 1992).

     NSF is interested in strengthening the agency interconnection
     points and we helped investigate the relevant requirements.

     CASA gigabit project

     The annual CNRI Gigabit Workshop for all five testbeds was held
     13-15 January 1992 at the Torrey Pines Sheraton Grande in La Jolla.
     Over 200 people attended to share and disucess issues in gigabit
     networking.

     Local

     SDSC & CERFnet will be making local routing changes on 22 Feb to
     support expanded FDDI and to continue our preparations for full use



Cooper                                                         [Page 27]

Internet Monthly Report                                     January 1992


     of the T-3 NSFnet.

     Misc

     Paul Love attended a planning session in Washington, DC, for the
     Feb NSF/FARnet Tempering the Network workshop.

     by Paul Love <loveep@sdsc.edu>

SRI
----

     SRI's Network Information System Center (NISC) updated the RFC
     Index in response to each RFC issued in January.  There were six
     RFCs issued in January 1992.

     The RFC Index contains citations of all RFCs issued to date in
     reverse numeric order.  It's also a quick reference to determine if
     any RFC has been obsoleted and gives a pointer to the replacement
     RFC.

     The RFC Index also supplies the equivalent FYI number, if the RFC
     was also issued as an FYI document.

     Paper copies of all RFCs are available from SRI, either
     individually or on a subscription basis (for more information
     contact nisc@nisc.sri.com or call 1-415-859-6387).  Online copies
     are available via FTP from ftp.nisc.sri.com as rfc/rfc####.txt or
     rfc/rfc####.ps (#### is the RFC number without leading zeroes).

     Additionally, RFCs may be requested through electronic mail from
     SRI's automated mail server by sending a message to mail-
     server@nisc.sri.com.  In the body of the message, indicate the RFC
     to be sent, e.g. "send rfcNNNN" where NNNN is the number of the
     RFC.  For PostScript RFCs, specify the extension, e.g. "send
     rfcNNNN.ps".  Multiple requests can be sent in a single message by
     specifying each request on a separate line.  The RFC Index can be
     requested by typing "send rfc-index".

     SRI NISC continues work on their "Internet: Getting Started"
     document.  This publication will explain what the Internet is, how
     to become a part of it, and what to do once you're on.  The new
     guide is expected to be completed in April 1992.

     The NISC also continued work on an update to the TCP-IP CD-ROM.
     The update will contain all RFCs issued through Feb. 7, 1992.  New
     information, such as Release 7.0 of the ISODE software, will be
     included and versions of the document files will be included that



Cooper                                                         [Page 28]

Internet Monthly Report                                     January 1992


     will be easily readable on Macs, UNIX and DOS systems.

     Sue Kirkpatrick (sue@NISC.SRI.COM)

UCL
----

     Two papers were submitted to SIGCOMM, one on Flow Control and
     Congestion Control, the other on Policy Routing. Another was
     submitted to INET on Wide Area Traffic measurements. All are
     available on request (from z.wang, b.kumar and d.lewis
     @cs.ucl.ac.uk, respectively).

     Ian Wakeman attended the End to End Research Group Meeting.  Jon
     Crowcroft attended a meeting in Copenhagen of project partners
     about to start building a pilot ATM-WAN plus DQDB-MAN testbed
     network. More later.  There was one slightly unsuccesful
     videoconference between UCL, BBN and DARPA.

     John Crowcroft (j.crowcroft@CS.UCL.AC.UK)

UNIVERSITY OF DELAWARE
----------------------


     1.   Ken Monington and Erik Perkins got our packet-video stuff
          going and connected to DARTNET. Platforms based both on the
          IBM PC and SPARCstation are operating for live conferences
          with our friends around the country.

     2.   Work continues on checkout of the NTP Version-3 time daemon
          implementation for Unix. Bugfixes are being collected for the
          next round of distribution.

     3.   The source of the problem that has prevented reliable acquis-
          tion of WWVB time signals here has been identified, but not
          yet found.  Using mobile communication receivers and equipment
          kindly provided by Spectracom, the source was found to be an
          interfering transmission of comparable signal strength and at
          varying frequency offsets up to a few Hertz from the 60-kHz
          WWVB signal. The interference is severe up to at least a few
          miles from campus. We are constructing additional gizmos so a
          proper foxhunt can be mounted and the culprit fingered.

     4.   Our LORAN-C timing receiver project has been completed and
          tested.  The receiver works very well and delivers reliable
          time to within 200 nanoseconds relative to a selected LORAN-C
          chain. The gizmo cost about $200 and requires an old IBM PC



Cooper                                                         [Page 29]

Internet Monthly Report                                     January 1992


          rescued from junk. It operates automatically, unlike an Aus-
          tron 2200 timing receiver on loan from the Coast Guard, which
          cost some $20K.

     5.   The folk at the Coast Guard EECEN, who kindly loaned us our
          cesium clock, are recalling this exotic creature. We may get
          it back sometime later this year. Meanwhile, our new LORAN-C
          gadget may serve the precision ticks until our GPS receiver
          returns from repair.

     6.   Dave Mills and Charlie Boncelet attended the Gigbit Jamboree
          in San Diego. Dave Mills attended the Internet Workshop in
          Boston and End- End Research Meeting in Palo Alto.

          Dave Mills (Mills@UDEL.EDU)

WISCNET
-------

     The Milwaukee School of Engineering joined WiscNet; their
     connection was activated on 17-January-1992.

     Planning for the April WiscNet conference continues.  The
     conference will follow the meeting of a Wisconsin Library group and
     focus on Internet services.

     Michael Dorl dorl@macc.wisc.edu

X.400 PROJECT
-------------

     Overview

     The Internet X.400 Project at the University of Wisconsin is funded by
     NSF.  We are working on two main areas: supporting the operational use
     of X.400, and working with others to define organizational procedures
     necessary to operate X.400 on a large scale in the Internet.  To
     support the use of X.400, we are operating a PRMD, assisting sites in
     running PP or the Wisconsin Argo X.400 software packages, and running
     an X.400 Message Transfer Agent (MTA) which is connected to U.S. and
     international MTAs using RFC1006/TCP/IP.  Internet sites are invited
     to join our PRMD or establish X.400 connections with us.  The
     organizational work is being done jointly by IETF working groups and
     RARE Working Group 1.  For more information on any of our activities,
     please email x400-project-team@cs.wisc.edu, or

     /C=us/ADMD= /PRMD=xnren/O=uw-madison/OU=cs/s=x400-project-team/




Cooper                                                         [Page 30]

Internet Monthly Report                                     January 1992


     PP Version 6.0 Installed at Wisconsin

     PP Version 6.0 was recently released by Julian Onions and Steve
     Hardcastle-Kille.  PP is a publicly available multi-protocol MTA,
     including X.400(84), X.400(88), and an RFC1148bis X.400 to SMTP
     gateway.  Our project served as a beta site for this release, and we
     are now running 6.0 on our primary and alternate MTAs.  We can assist
     other sites who are interested in getting PP installed and running.
     We have made our PP 6.0 configuration tables available via public ftp
     to offer an example to others.  Ftp to mhs-relay.cs.wisc.edu, login as
     anonymous, password is guest, and look in the pub/pp-6.0.xnren
     directory.

     Email to Fax Gateway Service

     With the installation of PP 6.0, we are now offering an outgoing email
     to fax gateway service.  For a limited time, the fax service is
     available to all who wish to experiment with the service.  The gateway
     is addressed as:

     822: "/fax=<number>/attn=<string>/s=fax-gw/"@calypso.cs.wisc.edu

     X.400:  /FAX=<number>/ATTN=<string>/S=fax-gw/OU=cs/O=uw-madison/
             PRMD=xnren/ADMD= /C=us/
             (where FAX and ATTN are Domain-Defined Attributes)

     where <number> is the phone number you wish to send the fax to and
     <string> is a string you would like to appear on the cover page
     with the prefix "For the attention of." We encourage you to try
     using this facility to send faxes anywhere in the US.  The phone
     number for long distance should be 10 digits long, as in 608-262-
     1017.  If you want to send a fax within the 608 area code, the 608
     can be left out.  Finally, if you want to send a fax within the
     University of Wisconsin, only the last 5 digits are necessary.
     Access to international calls can be arranged.  Please contact
     hagens@cs.wisc.edu for this information.  Faxes longer than 10
     pages are truncated at 10 pages.

     SMTP to X.400 Gateway Service

     Our project operates a gateway which relays between X.400 and SMTP
     mail (specified in RFC1148bis).  Most X.400 addresses can also be
     expressed as Internet SMTP addresses.  In that case, the mail is
     automatically routed to an appropriate gateway.  However, if an
     Internet user has only the X.400 address of an intended recipient,
     the mail can be directed to our gateway and relayed for X.400
     delivery.  This can be done by sending Internet SMTP mail to
     "x400-address"@mhs-relay.cs.wisc.edu.  For example, to send mail to



Cooper                                                         [Page 31]

Internet Monthly Report                                     January 1992


     the X.400 address "/C=xx/ADMD= /PRMD=X/O=Y/S=user/", an Internet
     SMTP user can address
     "/C=xx/ADMD= /PRMD=x/O=y/S=user/"@mhs-relay.cs.wisc.edu

     If the X.400 address is part of the Global X.400 Research and
     Education Service, we will gateway the SMTP message into X.400 and
     forward it for delivery.  Note that this will not work for X.400
     recipients in many commercial services because the necessary
     connections and service agreements are not in place.

     Testing X.400 over CLNP

     We are experimenting with a full OSI stack MTA by taking advantage
     of the emerging CLNS connectivity.  These experiments help us
     understand the complexities of multi-stack X.400 routing as well as
     provide a source of traffic for the various CLNS pilot projects.
     We have a vax running BSD 4.4 with CLNS connectivity to our
     regional network (CICnet).  We expect CICnet to complete
     connectivity to the NSFnet backbone in the very near future.  We
     would like to encourage other sites with pure stack (CLNS) X.400
     connectivity to the NSFnet backbone to become testing partners with
     us.

     Internet X.400 Symposium Planned

     If there is sufficient community interest, we are planning to offer
     a symposium that covers Internet X.400 deployment and RFC 822
     gateway issues.  The purpose of this symposium is to educate the
     community about Internet X.400 issues and provide a forum for
     individuals to meet and interact with others.  We intend that the
     workshop should span 2-3 days and be held at the University of
     Wisconsin-Madison in late Spring with a nominal cost.  We are
     currently gathering information from potential participants about
     which topics are of particular interest.  Please email
     hagens@cs.wisc.edu for more information.

     X.400 Working Group Activities

     Several groups are working on issues critical to the current and
     future large-scale use of X.400 in the Internet.  The IETF X.400
     Operations Working Group and RARE WG1 are discussing the
     requirements of X.400 Management Domains which want to connect to
     other global MDs, and the format(s) which should be used to
     document multi-protocol connectivity and routing.  The X.400
     Operations WG is co-chaired by Rob Hagens and Alf Hansen.  The WG1
     chair is Urs Eppenberger.  The IETF MHS-DS group was recently
     formed, and is working to define how X.500 should be used to
     support effective large scale deployment of X.400.  The MHS-DS WG



Cooper                                                         [Page 32]

Internet Monthly Report                                     January 1992


     is co-chaired by Kevin Jordan and Harald Alvestrand.  The next WG1
     meeting is Feb 19-20 in Brussels, Belgium with a COSINE X.400
     Managers meeting Feb 20-21.  The next IETF meeting is March 16-20
     in San Diego, California.  Email addresses for these working group
     leaders are:

        hagens@cs.wisc.edu
        /S=Hagens/OU=CS/O=UW-Madison/PRMD=xnren/ADMD= /C=us/

        Alf.Hansen@Delab.Sintef.no
        /G=Alf/S=Hansen/OU=Delab/O=Sintef/PRMD=uninett/ADMD= /C=no/

        eppenberger@verw.switch.ch
        /S=Eppenberger/OU=verw/O=switch/PRMD=SWITCH/ADMD=ARCOM/C=CH/

        kej@udev.cdc.com
        /G=Kevin/S=Jordan/O=CPG/PRMD=CDC/ADMD=ATTmail/C=us/

        harald.alvestrand@delab.sintef.no
        /G=Harald/S=Alvestrand/OU=delab/O=sintef/PRMD=uninett/ADMD= /C=no/

        by Allan Cargille
           cargille@cs.wisc.edu
           /G=Allan/S=Cargille/OU=CS/O=UW-Madison/PRMD=xnren/ADMD= /C=us/

     Allan Cargille <Allan.Cargille@cs.wisc.edu>

























Cooper                                                         [Page 33]

Internet Monthly Report                                     January 1992


DIRECTORY SERVICES
------------------

This section of the Internet Monthly is devoted to efforts working to
develop directory services that are for, or effect, the Internet.  We
would like to encourage any organization with news about directory
service activities to use this forum for publishing brief monthly news
items.  The current reporters list includes:

        o IETF OSIDS Working Group                          [included]
        o IETF DISI Working Group                           [no]
        o Field Operational X.500 Project                   [included]
           - ISI                                            [included]
           - Merit                                          [no]
           - PSI                                            [no]
           - SRI                                            [no]
        o National Institute of Standards and Technology    [no]
        o North American Directory Forum                    [no]
        o OSI Implementor's Workshop                        [no]
        o PARADISE Project                                  [included]
        o PSI DARPA/NNT X.500 Project                       [no]
        o PSI WHITE PAGES PILOT                             [no]
        o Registration Authority Committee (ANSI USA RAC)   [no]
        o U.S. Department of State, Study Group D,          [included]
          MHS Management Domain subcommittee (SG-D MHS-MD)

Tom Tignor (tpt2@isi.edu)
DS Report Coordinator

IETF OSIDS WORKING GROUP
------------------------

     The OSI-DS WG did not meet in Santa Fe, as it had recently met at
     Interop.

     The following WG documents have been progressed as RFCs:

     RFC 1274:   The COSINE and Internet X.500 Schema

     RFC 1275:   Replication Requirements to provide an Internet
                 Directory using X.500

     RFC 1276:   Replication and Distributed Operations extensions
                 to provide an Internet Directory using X.500

     RFC 1277:   Encoding Network Addresses to support operation
                 over non-OSI lower layers




Cooper                                                         [Page 34]

Internet Monthly Report                                     January 1992


     RFC 1278:   A string encoding of Presentation Address

     RFC 1279:   X.500 and Domains

     There has been extensive electronic discussion on new attributes
     for the schema.  It is hoped that this will resolve soon into a new
     version of RFC 1274.

     Christian Huitema suggested an alternate approach to naming
     organisations to that proposed in OSI-DS 12.  There has been an
     electronic survey of the WG to attempt to progress this issue.  A
     discussion of the relevant points will be in the next version of
     OSI-DS 12.

     The European arm of the OSI-DS WG (RARE WG3 Directory Services
     subgroup) met in Brussels on January 28-29th.  Progress was made on
     three I-Ds, which has lead to new drafts being submitted:

     OSI-DS 12 (v4)
        P. Barker
        S.E. Kille
        January 1992
        Naming Guidelines for Directory Pilots
        draft-ietf-osids-dirpilots-03.ps

     Abstract: Deployment of a Directory will benefit from following
     certain guidelines.  This document defines a number of naming
     guidelines.  Alignment to these guidelines is recommended for
     directory pilots.


     OSI-DS 23 (v1)
     osi-ds-23-01.ps
     osi-ds-23-01.txt
             A String Representation of Distinguished Names
             S.E. Hardcastle-Kille
             January 1992

     Abstract: The OSI Directory uses distinguished names as the primary
     keys to entries in the directory.  Distinguished Names are encoded in
     ASN.1.  When a distinguished name is communicated between to users not
     using a directory protocol (e.g., in a mail message), there is a need
     to have a user-oriented string representation of distinguished name.








Cooper                                                         [Page 35]

Internet Monthly Report                                     January 1992


     OSI-DS 24 (v1)
     osi-ds-24-01.ps
     osi-ds-24-01.txt
             Using the OSI Directory to achieve  User Friendly Naming
             S.E. Hardcastle-Kille
             January 1992

     Abstract: The OSI Directory has user friendly naming as a goal.  A
     simple minded usage of the directory does not achieve this.  Two
     aspects not achieved are:

      o  A user oriented notation
      o  Guessability

     This proposal sets out some conventions for representing names in a
     friendly manner, and shows how this can be used to achieve really
     friendly naming.  This then leads to a specification of a standard
     format for representing names, and to procedures to resolve them.
     This leads to a specification which allows directory names to be
     communicated between humans.  The format in this specification is
     identical to that defined in [HK92], and it is intended that these
     specifications are compatible.

     Steve Hardcastle-Kille (s.kille@cs.ucl.ac.uk)

FOX -- FIELD OPERATIONAL X.500 PROJECT
--------------------------------------

     The FOX project is a DARPA and NSF sponsored effort to provide a
     basis for operational X.500 deployment in the NREN/Internet.  This
     work is being carried out at Merit, NSYERNet/PSI, SRI and ISI.  ISI
     is the main contractor and responsible for project oversight.

     ISI
     ---

        ISI's upgraded DSA continues to run without problems. At
        present, ISI is committing itself only to the publication of the
        DSAR and preparation for the IETF meeting in San Diego.

        Readers may notice that the FOX project's nearing the end of its
        funding is having a detrimental effect on FOX reports.

        Tom Tignor (tpt2@ISI.EDU)







Cooper                                                         [Page 36]

Internet Monthly Report                                     January 1992


PARADISE
--------

     In January INDIA joined the global Directory pilot. The Indian
     Institute in Bombay is mastering c=IN running a QUIPU DSA and
     registering eight institutes of higher education.

     PARADISE project representatives gave presentations on the pilot
     and X.500 issues in AUSTRALIA to AARNet, and in NEW ZEALAND to a
     group representing government, commercial and academic interests.
     Similarly a talk was given at Tel-Aviv University to a similarly
     mixed group in the ISRAEL pilot.  Finally, PARADISE was presented
     to the eighth meeting of the NADF (North America Directory Forum)
     in Tampa as part of a deputation from the ETSI/EWOS Directory
     group.

     Work is being carried out on the development of "dm" (Directory
     Manager), a line-oriented remote account management tool which
     aesthetically and funtionally is similar to "de", the PARADISE DUA.
     "dm" is intended to provide a tool for remote login and management
     of Directory accounts either on one of the central PARADISE
     machines in London or on a centrally-managed national DSA - the
     choice will be made by arrangement between the national DSA manager
     and PARADISE. This is not a bulk loader, and is primarily intended
     for SME's (small-to-medium sized enterprises) who would not
     normally be in a position to run a DSA and manage their own
     Directory account. Users may be authorised to manage either an
     organisational node or an organisational unit node. The tool will
     also eventually be available for use in a purely local environment.
     Beta test sites are being approached at the moment, and it is hoped
     to have first trials at the end of February.  Sorting out the
     procedural mechanisms is expected to require some close attention
     during the piloting phase which it is hoped to complete before the
     end of April.

     By arrangement with COSINE, there will be four "reviews" of "de"
     every quarter, so that suggestions and outstanding bugs can be
     fixed together with enhancements. The first upgrade is due by the
     middle of this month.

     The PTTs (Netherlands, Switzerland and Finland) have almost
     completed the evaluation of their survey of service providers in
     Europe, and PARADISE will be able to make an extract of that
     available by the end of February.

     David Goodman (d.goodman@cs.ucl.ac.uk)
     PARADISE Project Manager




Cooper                                                         [Page 37]

Internet Monthly Report                                     January 1992


SG-D MHS-MD
-----------

     There is some progress to report on the c=US ADMD/PRMD name
     registration work, but no progress has yet been made on development
     of "behavioral rules" for ADMD participation in the c=US MTS.  We
     did however reorganize our efforts to hopefully make better
     progress in the future.

     A new chair was elected to serve for the next two years: Ella
     Gardener of The MITRE Corporation is the new Chair.

     A major portion of the meeting was devoted to preparing for and
     then joinly meeting with the ANSI USA RAC (Registration Authority
     Committee).  At issue is the question of how to meld the
     requirements for X.400 MHSMD Name Values with the requirement for
     X.500 RDN Values so as to share the joint-iso-ccitt { 2 16 840 }
     name-space arc for c=US.  ISO and CCITT have recently decided to
     establish a new arc under { 2 16 ) for all countries to use for RDN
     name registrations.  The c=US arc in this tree is { 2 16 840 }.

     The current ANSI rules work well enough to fill the needs for
     registration of "national standing" names in c=US, while the bulk
     of the RDN values needed for X.500 are supplied by the existing
     civil naming authorities in c=US. (See RFC1255 for the NADF Naming
     Scheme.)

     ANSI is now registering Organizational Names, along with a related
     OID Numberform value for a total fee of $2500 per pair ($1000 for
     the OID value and $1500 for the Alphaform Value).

     An OID Numberform Value can be obtained separately, but an
     Alphaform Value must be accompanied by a Numberform Value.  A
     Numberform Value may be obtained first (for $1000), and an
     Alphaform Value can then be associated with it at some later date
     (for $1500 additional).

     It turns out that X.400 MHS MD name registration has a different
     semantic than X.500 RDN registration, in that an ADMD name
     registration might carry with it the registration of a commitment
     to operate according to the ADMD MTS "behavior rules" (which are
     yet to be written and voluntarily agreed to by the c=US MTS
     community).  No such commitment is implied by the current
     application for an ANSI Organizational Name Registration.  This
     difference must be accommodated in some way.

     A suggested way to deal with this situation is to ask ANSI to offer
     a second MHSMD registration service which "leases" names (without



Cooper                                                         [Page 38]

Internet Monthly Report                                     January 1992


     any associated OID) with a periodic renewal fee which embodies the
     "MHSMD commitment" semantic mentioned above.

     This would serve to meet two needs of the MHSMD community, which
     the current ANSI service does not meet.  The first is the
     "commitment issue" and the second is the "entry fee" issue.  Many
     people feel that $2500 is much too much to pay for a PRMD name
     registration.  It is also reconized that PRMD names may be much
     more transient and volatile than are c=US Organizational names, so
     that perpetual registration does not entirely make sense for PRMD
     names.  Of course, it is possible that with an annual fee, a PRMD
     name registration might cost more than an ANSI organizational
     registration over a long period of years, but the cost of entry is
     low, and the difference over time should not be significant.

     Also, some organizations will want to use the same registered name
     for both, and so we need to work out ways for this to be
     accomplished.

     In any case, the two kinds of registered Alphaform name values must
     be drawn from a single pool of names, preferably seen as populating
     the { 2 16 840 } joint-iso-ccitt arc.  One way to do this is to
     have a single registration agent to administer both registries, and
     an agreement that any name registered in one is reserved to the
     same owner in the other registry, with the meld for both registries
     regarded as populating the { 2 16 840 } Alphaform Name arc.

     All this looks like real progress, but we are still not out of the
     woods with how to deal with the current installed base of ADMD
     registered PRMD names which has been accumulating over the years
     without any coordination among ADMD registrars.

     NOTE: We are not aware at this time of any conflicting assignments,
     so there may not be any problem with conflicts when we try to bring
     the whole PRMD name registration process into a single national
     MHSMD registry.  If anyone knows of any PRMD name ownership
     conflicts, please let us know about them!

     Where we are currently hung up is on some ADMD proposals to retain
     the status quo with uncoordinated ADMD registration of PRMD names,
     with reliance on distinguishing any cases of conflicting PRMD name
     assignments by qualifying them with their ADMD registrar's names,
     in the normal way of distinguishing names in hierarchical naming
     systems.  The proposal is to establish a national registry for
     those who want nationally unique PRMD names for themselves, but
     retain the ability for any ADMD to also register any name it
     wishes, subordinate to the registering ADMD's name.  Some of us
     feel that this is just too messy to deal with.



Cooper                                                         [Page 39]

Internet Monthly Report                                     January 1992


     The Next meeting of the MHSMD will be held at ANSI on days adjacent
     to the next ANSI RAC meeting.  Another joint meeting session will
     be held to continue working on ways to meld the two registration
     operations.  (ANSI RAC meeting: Feb 19 (Wed), MHSMD meeting: Feb
     20-21 (Thu-Fri).  The joint meeting will be held on Feb 20 (Thu).

     Einar Stefferud (stef@ics.uci.edu)












































Cooper                                                         [Page 40]

Internet Monthly Report                                     January 1992


CALENDAR
--------

Readers are requested to send in dates of events that are
appropriate for this calendar section.

1992 CALENDAR

     Jan 13-21       ANSI X3T5
     Jan 19          T1S1, Call Control and Signaling (ISDN,
                     Frame Relay, Broadband ATM)
     Jan 20-22       RIPE, Amsterdam
     Jan 28-30       ANSI X3S3.3, Tucson, AZ
     Feb 9           T1E1, Physical Layer Interfaces (ISDN, T1,
                     Broadband, etc.) Fish Camp, CA  Verilink
     Feb 19-20       RARE WG1, Location unknown
     Feb 20-21       RARE Manager Mtg, Location unknown
     Mar 2           T1S1, Call Control and Signaling (ISDN, Frame
                     Relay, Broadband ATM)
     Mar 2-6         ANSI X3T5
     Mar 2-6         CAIA '92  8th IEEE Conference on AI Application
     Mar 3-5         ACM CSC, Kansas City, MO
     Mar 9-13        IEEE802 Plenary, Irvine, CA
     Mar 9-13        OIW, NIST, Gaithersburg, MD
     Mar 16-18       Multipeer/Multicast Forum,
                     Orlando, Fl, (mloper@ucf1vm.cc.ucf.edu)
     Mar 16-19       INDC-92 (Info Networks & Data Communication)
                     Espoo, Helsinki, Finland
                     indc92@cs.helsinki.fi, tienari@cs.helsinki.fi
     Mar 16-19       Int'l Zurich Seminar on Digital Comm.
                     Zurich, Contact: schlegel@tech.ascom.ch
     Mar 16-20       IETF, San Diego, CA
                     Megan Davies (mdavies@nri.reston.ca.us)
     Mar 18-20       Computers, Freedom & Privacy II,
                     Grand Hyatt Hotel, Washington, DC
     Mar 23          T1M1, Management and Maintenance (ISDN,
                     Broadband, Frame Relay, etc.), Raleigh, NC,
                     Fujitsu
     Mar 25-27       National Net 92, Washington DC
                     Elizabeth Barnhart (barnhart@educom.edu)
     Apr 6-16        CCITT SG VII    Geneva, Switzerland
     Apr 21-23       ANSI X3S3.3, Mountaon View, Ca.
     May 4-6         ANSI X3T5
     May 4-8         DECUS '92, Atlanta, GA
     May 4-8         IEEE INFOCOM'92, See IEEE Pub., Florence, Italy
     May 11          T1E1,  Physical Layer Interfaces (ISDN, T1,
                     Broadband, etc.)
                     Williamsburg, VA, Bell Atlantic



Cooper                                                         [Page 41]

Internet Monthly Report                                     January 1992


     May 12-14       Joint Network Conference 3, Innsbruck, Austria
                     (this is the RARE Networkshop - renamed)
     May 13-15       Third IFIP International Workshop on Protocols
                     for High Speed Networks, Stockholm, Sweden
                     Contact: Per Gunningberg, per@sics.se
                         Bjorn Pehrson, bjorn@sics.se,
                         Stephen Pink, steve@sics.se
     May 18-25       INTEROP92, Washington, D.C.
                     Dan Lynch (dlynch@interop.com)
     May 19-29       ISO/IEC JTC 1/SC 21, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada
     May 27-29       IFIP WG 6.5 Int'l Conference on Upper Layer
                     Protocols, Architectures and Applications
                     Vancouver, Canada
                     plattner<plattner@komsys.tik.ethz.ch>
                     Gerald Neufeld <neufeld@cs.ubc.ca>
     Jun 8           T1M1, Management and Maintenance (ISDN,
                     Broadband, Frame Relay, etc.)
                     Minneapolis, MN, ADC TElecom
     Jun 8-12        OIW, NIST, Gaithersburg, MD
     Jun 10-11       RARE WG1, tentative-Location unknown
     Jun 11-12       RARE COSINE MHS MGR, tentative-Location unknown
     Jun 14-17       ICC-SUPERCOMM'92, Chicago, IL. See IEEE Publ..
     Jun 15-19       INET92, Kobe, Japan
                     Jun Murai (jun@wide.ad.jp), KEIO University
                     Elizabeth Barnhart (barnhart@educom.edu)
                     "North America Contact"
     Jun 16-18       ANSI X3S3.3, Minneapolos, MN
     Jun 22-25       PSTV-XII, Orlando, Florida
                     Umit Uyar, ATT Bell Labs, <umit@honet5.att.com>
                     Jerry Linn, NIST <linnrj@ECF.NCSL.NIST.GOV>
     Jun 29-Jul 1    Fourth Workshop on Computer-Aided Verification
                     (CAV 92); see Sigact News, Vol, 22 No. 4
                     Montreal Canada
                     G. Bockmann:  bochmann@iro.umontreal.ca
     Jul 6-10        IEEE802 Plenary, Bloomington, MN
     Jul 13-17       ANSI X3T5
     Jul 13-24       ISO/IEC JTC1/SC6, San Diego, CA
     Aug 2           T1S1, Call Control and Signaling (ISDN,
                     Frame Relay, Broadband ATM)
     Aug 16          T1S1, Call Control and Signaling (ISDN,
                     Frame Relay, Broadband ATM)
     Aug 17-20       SIGCOMM, Baltimore, MD
                     Deepinder Sidhu, UMBC
     Aug 18-21       ACM SIGCOMM '92, Baltimore, Maryland
                     <sigcomm92@nri.reston.va.us>






Cooper                                                         [Page 42]

Internet Monthly Report                                     January 1992


     Aug 24-27       CONCUR '92 - Third Int'l Conference on Concurrency
                     Theory (Paper deadline March 1, 1992), Stony Brook
                     Rance Cleaveland (rance@csc.ncsu.edu)
                     Scott Smolka  (sas@sunysb.edu), in
     Sep 7-11        12th IFIP World Computer Congress
                     Madrid, Spain;  Contact: IFIP92@dit.upm.es
     Sep 14-18       ANSI X3T5
     Sep 21-25       OIW, NIST, Gaithersburg, MD
     Sep 22-24       ANSI X3S3.3, Boston, MA
     Sep 28-30       5th IFIP International Workshop on Protocol
                     Test Systems (IWPTS), Montreal, Canada
                     iwpts@iro.umontreal.ca
     Oct 12-16       FORTE'92, Lannion, France
                     Roland Groz (groz@lannion.cnet.fr)
                     Michel Diaz (diaz@droopy.laas.fr)
     Oct 26-30       INTEROP92, San Francisco
                     Dan Lynch (dlynch@interop.com)
     Oct 28-29       NETWORKS '92, Trivandrum, India
                     S.V. Raghavan (raghavan@shiva.ernet.in)
     Nov 9-13        ANSI X3T5
     Dec             ANSI X3S3.3, Boulder, CO
     Dec 6-9         GLOBECOM '92, Orlando, Florida (See IEEE Publications)
     Dec 7-11        DECUS '92, Las Vegas, NV
     Dec 14-18       OIW, NIST, Gaithersburg, MD


1993 CALENDAR

     Mar 8-12        INTEROP93, Wasington, D.C.
                     Dan Lynch (dlynch@interop.com)
     Mar 8-12        OIW, NIST, Gaithersburg, MD
     Apr 18-23       IFIP WG 6.6 Third International Symposium
                     on Integrated Network Management, Sheraton
                     Palace Hotel, San Francisco, CA (kzm@hls.com)
     May 23-26       ICC'92, Geneva, Switzerland
     May-Jun         PSTV-XIII, University of Liege.
                     Contact: Andre Danthine,
     May 23-26       ICC '93, Geneva, See IEEE Publications.
     Jun 7-11        OIW, NIST, Gaithersburg, MD
     Aug 18-21       INET93,  San Francisco Bay Area
     Aug 23-27       INTEROP93, San Francisco
                     Dan Lynch (dlynch@interop.com)
     Aug             SIGCOMM, San Francisco
     Sep ??          6th SDL Forum, Darmstadt
                     Ove Faergemand (ove@tfl.dk)
     Sep 13-17       OIW, NIST, Gaithersburg, MD





Cooper                                                         [Page 43]

Internet Monthly Report                                     January 1992


     Sep 20-31       ISO/IEC JTC1/SC6, Seoul, Korea.
     Oct 12-14       Conference on Network Information Processing,
                     Sofia, Bulgaria;  Contact: IFIP-TC6
     Nov 9-13        IEEE802 Plenary, LaJolla, CA
     Dec 6-10        OIW, NIST, Gaithersburg, MD


1994 CALENDAR

     Apr 18-22       INTEROP94, Washington, D.C.
                     Dan Lynch (dlynch@interop.com)
     Aug 29-Sep 2    IFIP World Congress
                     Hamburg, Germany; Contact: IFIP
     Sep 12-16       INTEROP94, San Francisco
                     Dan Lynch (dlynch@interop.com)

1995 CALENDAR

     Sep 18-22       INTEROP95, San Francisco, CA
                     Dan Lynch (dlynch@interop.com)

-------------------------------
Note:

       T1E1: Physical Layer Interfaces (ISDN, T1, Broadband, etc.,)
       T1M1:  Management and Maintenance (ISDN, Broadband, Frame
              Relay, etc.)
























Cooper                                                         [Page 44]
