





~









January 1993


INTERNET MONTHLY REPORTS
------------------------

The purpose of these reports is to communicate to the Internet Research
Group the accomplishments, milestones reached, or problems discovered by
the participating organizations.

     This report is for Internet information purposes only, and is not
     to be quoted in other publications without permission from the
     submitter.

Each organization is expected to submit a 1/2 page report on the first
business day of the month describing the previous month's activities.

These reports should be submitted via network mail to:

     Ann Westine Cooper (Cooper@ISI.EDU)
     NSF Regional reports - Corinne Carroll (ccarroll@NNSC.NSF.NET)
     Directory Services reports - Murali Venkateshaiah (murali@ISI.EDU)

Requests to be added or deleted from the Internet Monthly report list
should be sent to "imr-request@isi.edu".

     Details on obtaining the current IMR, or back issues, via FTP or
     EMAIL may be obtained by sending an EMAIL message to "rfc-
     info@ISI.EDU" with the message body "help: ways_to_get_imrs".  For
     example:

             To: rfc-info@ISI.EDU
             Subject: getting imrs

             help: ways_to_get_imrs






Cooper                                                          [Page 1]

Internet Monthly Report                                     January 1993


TABLE OF CONTENTS

  INTERNET ACTIVITIES BOARD

     INTERNET ENGINEERING REPORTS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  3

  Internet Projects

     BOLT BERANEK AND NEWMAN, INC.,  . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  8
     CIX (COMMERCIAL INTERNET EXCHANGE). . . . . . . . . . . . page 12
     ISI . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 13
     JVNCNET . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 24
     NEARNET (NEW ENGLAND ACADEMIC AND RESEARCH NETWORK) . . . page 26
     NNSC, UCAR/BOLT BERANEK and NEWMAN, INC., . . . . . . . . page 27
     NSFNET/ANSNET BACKBONE ENGINEERING. . . . . . . . . . . . page 28
     NSFNET/INFORMATION SERVICES . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 34
     UCL . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 36

  CALENDAR OF EVENTS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 39
































Cooper                                                          [Page 2]

Internet Monthly Report                                     January 1993



INTERNET ENGINEERING REPORTS
----------------------------

     1. Let me remind everyone that the next IETF meeting will be held
     in Columbus, Ohio from March 29 through April 2, 1993 (yes, this
     does mean that the IESG Open Plenary will be held on April First),
     and is being co-hosted by OARNet and The Ohio State University. The
     Newcomers' Orientation and the Registration Reception will be held
     on Sunday, March 28. Registration information has already been sent
     and updates will be made to the IETF Announcement list.

     Note that the 27th meeting of the IETF, scheduled for July of 1993,
     will be held in Amsterdam, The Netherlands, and will be co-hosted
     by SURFnet and RARE. This will be the first time an IETF meeting
     has been held outside of North America. The Secretariat will be
     distributing information and instructions for making hotel
     reservations relatively soon to facilitate making travel plans and
     arrangements, but will NOT be accepting meeting registrations for
     Amsterdam at this time.

     2. As a reminder, minutes from IESG meetings and teleconferences
     can be found in the shadow directories under the iesg directory.

     The following file naming convention is used:

           iesg.YY-MM-DD

     (e.g. iesg.92-12-21 for the minutes from December 21, 1992).

     3. One new working group was established during the month of
        January, 1993:

           Simple Internet Protocol (sip)

        Additionally, four working groups were concluded:

           IP over FDDI (fddi)
           Multi-Media Bridging (mmb)
           Internet User Glossary (userglos)
           RIP Version II (ripv2)

     4. The IESG approved the following 13 actions during the month of
        January, 1993:

        o  A String Representation of Distinguished Names
           <draft-ietf-osids-distnames> as a Proposed Standard.




Cooper                                                          [Page 3]

Internet Monthly Report                                     January 1993


        o  Using the OSI Directory to Achieve User Friendly Naming
           <draft-ietf-osids-friendlynaming> as an Experimental
           Protocol.
        o  Privacy Enhancement for Internet Electronic Mail: Part I:
           Message Encryption and Authentication Procedures
           <draft-ietf-pem-msgproc> as a Proposed Standard.
        o  Privacy Enhancement for Internet Electronic Mail: Part II:
           Certificate-Based Key Management <draft-ietf-pem-keymgmt> as
           a Proposed Standard.
        o  Privacy Enhancement for Internet Electronic Mail: Part III:
           Algorithms, Modes, and Identifiers
           <draft-ietf-pem-algorithms> as a Proposed Standard.
        o  Privacy Enhancement for Internet Electronic Mail: Part IV:
           Key Certification and Related Services <draft-ietf-pem-forms>
           as a Proposed Standard.
        o  Definitions of Managed Objects for the DS1 Interface Type
           <rfc1232> moving to Historic Status.
        o  Definitions of Managed Objects for the DS3 Interface Type
           <rfc1233> moving to Historic Status.
        o  Definitions of Managed Objects for the DS1 and E1 Interface
           Types <draft-ietf-trunkmib-ds1e1mib> as a Proposed Standard.
        o  Definitions of Managed Objects for the DS3/E3 Interface Type
           <draft-ietf-trunkmib-ds3e3mib> as a Proposed Standard.
        o  FYI on a Network Management Tool Catalog: Tools for
           Monitoring and Debugging TCP/IP Internets and Interconnected
           Devices <draft-ietf-noctool2-debug-tcpip> as an Informational
           document.
        o  Mapping between X.400 (1984/1988) and Mail-11 (DECnet mail)
           <draft-ietf-x400ops-mapsmail> as an Experimental Protocol.
        o  Internet Users' Glossary <draft-ietf-userglos-glossary> as
           an Informational document.

     5. Thirty-three (33) Internet Draft actions were taken during the
        month of January, 1993:

                 (Revised draft (o), New Draft (+) )

       WG           I-D Title <Filename>
      ------        --------------------------------------------------
      (osids)    o  Using the OSI Directory to Achieve User Friendly
                    Naming
                       <draft-ietf-osids-friendlynaming-05.txt, .ps>
      (dhc)      o  Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol
                       <draft-ietf-dhc-protocol-06.txt, .ps>
      (x25mib)   o  SNMP MIB extension for MultiProtocol Interconnect
                    over X.25
                       <draft-ietf-x25mib-ipox25mib-04.txt>




Cooper                                                          [Page 4]

Internet Monthly Report                                     January 1993


      (osids)    o  A String Representation of Distinguished Names
                       <draft-ietf-osids-distnames-05.txt, .ps>
      (osids)    o  Lightweight Directory Access Protocol
                       <draft-ietf-osids-lightdirect-03.txt>
      (iplpdn)   o  Shortcut Routing: Discovery and Routing over Large
                    Public Data Networks
                       <draft-ietf-iplpdn-shortcutrouting-02.txt>
      (atm)      o  Multiprotocol Interconnect over ATM Adaptation Layer
                    5
                       <draft-ietf-atm-multipro-05.txt>
      (iplpdn)   o  Directed ARP
                       <draft-ietf-iplpdn-directed_arp-01.txt>
      (dhc)      o  DHCP Options and BOOTP Vendor Extensions
                       <draft-ietf-dhc-options-03.txt>
      (none)     o  Definitions of Managed Objects for the SONET
                    Interface Type
                       <draft-ietf-cox-sonetmib-01.txt>
      (dhc)      o  Interoperation Between DHCP and BOOTP
                       <draft-ietf-dhc-between-bootp-03.txt>
      (none)     o  TCP/IP: Internet Version 7
                       <draft-ullmann-ipv7-02.txt>
      (tuba)     o  Use of ISO CLNP in TUBA Environments
                       <draft-ietf-tuba-clnp-02.txt>
      (userdoc2) o  FYI on Introducing the Internet--A Short
                    Bibliography of Introductory Internetworking
                    Readings for the Network Novice
                       <draft-ietf-userdoc2-fyi-novice-02.txt>
      (pip)      o  Pip Identifiers
                       <draft-ietf-pip-identifiers-01.txt>
      (mospf)    o  IP Multicast over Token-Ring Local Area Networks
                       <draft-pusateri-tokenring-lan-02.txt>
      (trunkmib) o  Definitions of Managed Objects for the DS3/E3
                    Interface Type
                       <draft-ietf-trunkmib-ds3e3mib-02.txt>
      (trunkmib) o  Definitions of Managed Objects for the DS1 and E1
                    Interface Types
                       <draft-ietf-trunkmib-ds1e1mib-02.txt>
      (smtpext)  o  Transition of Internet Mail from Just-Send-8 to
                    8Bit-SMTP/MIME
                       <draft-ietf-smtpext-transition-03.txt>
      (none)     +  A Strategy for Encoding Hierarchical Addresses in
                    Internet Name Services
                       <draft-wollman-nap-based-00.txt, .ps>
      (none)     o  Internet Engineering Task Force Statements Of Policy
                    (SOPs)
                       <draft-rekhter-sops-02.txt>





Cooper                                                          [Page 5]

Internet Monthly Report                                     January 1993


      (snmpsec)  o  Administrative Model for version 2 of the Simple
                    Network Management Protocol (SNMPv2)
                       <draft-ietf-snmpsec-adminv2-02.txt>
      (snmpsec)  o  Party MIB for version 2 of the Simple Network
                    Management Protocol (SNMPv2)
                       <draft-ietf-snmpsec-partyv2-02.txt>
      (snmpsec)  o  Security Protocols for version 2 of the Simple
                    Network Management Protocol (SNMPv2)
                       <draft-ietf-snmpsec-secv2-02.txt>
      (x400ops)  o  Using the Internet DNS to maintain RFC1327 Address
                    Mapping Tables
                       <draft-ietf-x400ops-dnsx400maps-02.txt>
      (pppext)   +  PPP LCP Extensions
                       <draft-ietf-pppext-lcpext-00.txt>
      (isis)     +  Use of OSI IS-IS for Routing in TCP/IP and
                    Multi-Protocol Environments
                       <draft-ietf-isis-tcpip-00.txt, .ps>
      (iesg)     +  IETF Working Group Guidelines and Procedures
                       <draft-ietf-iesg-wgguidelines-00.txt>
      (chassis)  +  Definitions of Managed Objects for a Chassis
                    Containing Multiple Logical Network Devices
                       <draft-ietf-chassis-mib-00.txt>
      (snmpsec)  o  Protocol Operations for version 2 of the Simple
                    Network Management Protocol (SNMPv2)
                       <draft-ietf-snmpsec-protov2-01.txt>
      (iplpdn)   +  Multiprotocol Interconnect over Frame Relay Networks
                       <draft-ietf-iplpdn-framerelay-00.txt>
      (snmpsec)  o  Manager to Manager Management Information Base
                       <draft-ietf-snmpsec-m2mv2-01.txt>
      (pip)      +  Use of DNS with Pip
                       <draft-ietf-pip-dns-00.txt>

     6. Twenty-four (24) RFC's were published during the month of
        January, 1993.

         RFC    St   WG        Title
        ------- --  --------   -------------------------------------
        RFC1387  I  (ripv2)    RIP Version 2 Protocol Analysis
        RFC1388 PS  (ripv2)    RIP Version 2 Carrying Additional
                               Information
        RFC1389 PS  (ripv2)    RIP Version 2 MIB Extension
        RFC1390  S  (fddi)     Transmission of IP and ARP over FDDI
                               Networks
        RFC1391  I  (none)     The Tao of IETF: A Guide for New
                               Attendees of the Internet Engineering
                               Task Force
        RFC1392  I  (userglos) Internet Users' Glossary
        RFC1393  E  (none)     Traceroute Using an IP Option



Cooper                                                          [Page 6]

Internet Monthly Report                                     January 1993


        RFC1394  I  (none)     Relationship of Telex Answerback Codes
                               to Internet Domains
        RFC1395  I  (none)     BOOTP Vendor Information Extensions
        RFC1396  I  (none)     The Process for Organization of Internet
                               Standards Working Group (POISED)
        RFC1397 PS  (bgp)      Default Route Advertisement In BGP2 And
                               BGP3 Versions Of The Border Gateway
                               Protocol
        RFC1398 DS  (ethermib) Definitions of Managed Objects for the
                               Ethernet-like Interface Types
        RFC1401  I  (none)     Correspondence between the IAB and DISA
                               on the use of DNS throughout the Internet
        RFC1402  I  (none)     There's Gold in them thar Networks!
                               Searching for Treasure in all the Wrong
                               Places
        RFC1403 PS  (bgp)      BGP OSPF Interaction
        RFC1404  I  (opstat)   A Model for Common Operational Statistics
        RFC1405  E  (x400ops)  Mapping between X.400 (1984/1988) and
                               Mail-11 (DECnet mail)
        RFC1406 PS  (trunkmib) Definitions of Managed Objects for the
                               DS1 and E1 Interface Types
        RFC1407 PS  (trunkmib) Definitions of Managed Objects for the
                               DS3/E3 Interface Type
        RFC1408 PS  (telnet)   Telnet Environment Option
        RFC1409  E  (telnet)   Telnet Authentication Option
        RFC1411  E  (telnet)   Telnet Authentication: Kerberos Version
                               4
        RFC1412  E  (telnet)   Telnet Authentication : SPX
        RFC1415 PS  (app)      FTP-FTAM Gateway Specification

     St(atus): ( S) Internet Standard
               (PS) Proposed Standard
               (DS) Draft Standard
               ( E) Experimental
               ( I) Informational

     Steve Coya (scoya@cnri.reston.va.us)
     Phill Gross (pgross@nis.ans.net)













Cooper                                                          [Page 7]

Internet Monthly Report                                     January 1993


INTERNET PROJECTS
-----------------

BOLT BERANEK AND NEWMAN INC.
----------------------------

     Interdomain Policy Routing
     --------------------------

     During the month of January, we have made significant progress in
     preparing for the Internet pilot demonstration of IDPR.  Before
     deploying the IDPR pilot, it was necessary to modify the existing
     IDPR software in two ways.

     (1) We had to add to the route generation software the capability
     of accounting for source policies such as requested delay and
     bandwidth and domains to exclude from a route.  This functionality
     has always been part of IDPR but was not available in the existing
     implementation.  Ramanathan has now completed and tested his
     implementation of source policies for IDPR.

     (2) We also had to make one SPARCstation behave like three distinct
     policy gateways in three separate domains.  Three of the transit
     domains that connect at the FIXes will participate in the IDPR
     pilot.  However, none of their routers will be modified.  Instead
     the policy gateways that act on their behalf will be located
     externally, in SPARCstations attached to the FIXes.  We are only
     permitted to attach one SPARCstation to each FIX; hence, each such
     SPARCstation must be capable of acting as three separate policy
     gateways, one for each transit domain.  Regina Rosales has been
     working on this problem and has successfully tested the case in
     which two policy gateways reside in a single SPARCstation.

     Real-Time Multicast Communications and Applications
     ---------------------------------------------------

     Introduction

     Last year, BBN began work on a project to investigate new
     approaches to distributed real-time communications and
     applications.  This work was motivated by the wide variety of new
     applications (personal conferencing, networked distribution of
     continuous-feed news/video services, and distributed simulations)
     and new network capabilities (network-wide resource coordination)
     that have recently emerged.

     In the area of distributed real-time applications, BBN is working
     on enhancing an existing Video Information Server (VIS) to work



Cooper                                                          [Page 8]

Internet Monthly Report                                     January 1993


     over the Internet and will be using it to investigate key topics
     such as interactive use of distributed video servers and desktop
     video and shared workspace conferencing.  One of the results of
     this work will be a distributed, replicated video information
     service that supports multiple geographically-separated clients.
     This service will feature:

     (A) fully digital delivery of compressed audio and video using
         multiple coding schemes (rates, encoding protocols, etc.); the
         servers and clients negotiate the choice of coding schemes
         based on currently available resources.

     (B) shared access to both stored and continuous feed audio and
         video information originating at multiple points in the
         Internet.  For example, it will be possible to "look around"
         the network and join (under suitable access control) the video
         feed from a meeting or seminar in progress.

     (C) automatic self-configuration of the servers and survival in the
         event of  failures of the replicated server resources.

     (D) optimal use of different communications bandwidths to different
         clients viewing the same video stream.

     In the communications area, BBN is developing several new
     communications services to provide the support needed for the Video
     Information Server and other distributed real-time applications.
     This work will result in:

     (A) resource coordination objects (RCO's) -- an abstraction that
         permits applications to perform conceptual operations on a
         group of network resources and gives the network access to
         information that allows it to make intelligent decisions.

     (B) anycasting -- the ability to address a replicated object and be
         directed to only the nearest/best one.

     (C) multi-level data flows -- a special case of resource
         coordination in which a group of information flows forms a
         whole, for example, different levels of hierarchically encoded
         video.

     (D) shared streams -- a mechanism with which applications can
         request multiplexing of reserved resources along overlapping
         parts of network paths that they are using.

     BBN will be using the DARTNET to develop and demonstrate these
     applications and networks capabilities.  The following diagram



Cooper                                                          [Page 9]

Internet Monthly Report                                     January 1993


     illustrates the capabilities that will be available when the
     proposed work is complete.

      Video Information   Desktop          Video Library      Regional
          Server 1       Video/SWS        Viewing Client 1    Service
            |              Conf 1               |            Directory 1
            |                |                  |                |
            |                |                  |                |
        +---+----LAN     +---+----LAN       +---+----LAN     +---+----LAN
            |                |                  |                |
            |                |                  |                |
     ,* * * G * * * * * * * *G * * * * * * * * *G * * * * * * * *G *.
    *                  New Network Capabilities:                     *
   *                     > Client-controlled join/leave               *
  *    The Internet      > Anycasting                                 *
  *                      > Multi-level data flow support              *
   *                     > Resource Coordination Objects             *
    *                    > Shared Streams                           *
     `* * * G* * * * * * * * G * * * * * * * * *G * * * * * * * *G*'
            |                |                  |                |
            |                |                  |                |
        +---+----LAN     +---+----LAN       +---+----LAN     +---+----LAN
            |                |                  |                |
            |                |                  |                |
        Regional     Video Information      Desktop         Video Stream
    Service Directory    Server 2          Video/SWS        Viewing Client
           2                                 Conf 2

     G = Gateway/router
     Video/SWS = Video / Shared Workspace Conference

     Progress To Date

     In the applications area, we have made the following enhancements
     to an existing LAN-based Video Information Server (VIS) to enable
     it to work over a wide-area network -- a new video transport
     protocol based on the work of the IETF Audio/Video Transport
     Working Group; a distributed, self-configuring resource database;
     and a catalog of available video information.

     In the communications area, we have made significant progress on
     completing the implementation of "multi-level flows" and
     "anycasting" service.  Coding and most of the testing have been
     completed for both of these.  We anticipate final testing to be
     completed in early February.  This will be followed by integration
     with the Video Information Server.





Cooper                                                         [Page 10]

Internet Monthly Report                                     January 1993


     Defense Simulation Internet (DSI)
     ---------------------------------

     Under a DARPA contract, BBN is developing the Defense Simulation
     Internet (DSI) by extending the Terrestrial Wideband Network
     (TWBNet) which it now replaces.  The DSI is a cooperative effort
     between DARPA and DISA with the support of DMSO.  It is intended to
     serve as a testbed for distributed simulation applications for the
     defense simulation community.  This includes support of field
     training exercises, the modelling and evaluation of new systems,
     and the link between them.

     The DSI is a high-speed cell-oriented network backbone consisting
     of three interconnected segments that provide redundancy in the
     event of circuit failure.  The two CONUS segments are T1 circuits;
     the European segment is a 512 Kbps circuit.

     BBN has implemented in DSI a version of the Internet ST (stream)
     protocol that supports real-time multi-site interactive simulation,
     multi-media conferencing, voice, and real-time image transmission.
     The multicast and resource allocation features of ST combined with
     IP provide an efficient way to dynamically multiplex real-time and
     non-real-time data traffic in a single communication system.

     BBN has also implemented an end-to-end security subnet by
     integrating Motorola's Network Encryption System (NES) into the
     network.  This subnet carries data at the secret level.  In order
     to increase the effective packet throughput of the NES, BBN
     developed and deployed packet aggregation software on the secure
     side of the network.

     The DSI supported several field training exercises in 1992, notably
     Ulchi Focus Lens (24-hours/day over three continents), Reforger,
     and War Breaker (with continuous throughput rates ranging up to 600
     Kbps).  To date, more than 50 sites have been installed in CONUS,
     Hawaii, Europe, and Korea; several more are in progress.

     Karen Seo <kseo@BBN.COM>













Cooper                                                         [Page 11]

Internet Monthly Report                                     January 1993


CIX (COMMERCIAL INTERNET EXCHANGE)
----------------------------------

     The following report outlines CIX-WEST usage for the month of
     December, 1992.

     CIX             In                         Out
     Member          Octets   Packets Errors   Octets   Packets  Errors
     --------------- ------------------------ --------- ---------------
     AlterNet        2.42e10  9.99e7  5.12e3   1.54e10  1.17e8   0.00e0
     BARRNet/NEARNet 5.16e8   2.25e6  1.46e3   2.39e10  1.31e8   0.00e0
     CERFNet         3.50e10  2.21e8  1.79e3   4.15e10  1.58e8   0.00e0
     PSINet          3.50e10  1.74e8  4.30e1   2.09e10  1.05e8   2.40e1
     SprintLink      9.41e9   2.94e7  5.39e3   1.76e9   1.12e7   0.00e0

     Starting: Nov 30 1992 at 23:53
     Ending: Dec 31 1992 at 23:53
     SNMP Polling Intervals: 4721
     SNMP Polling Frequency: 15 minutes

     In - traffic entering the CIX from the CIX member network
     Out - traffic exiting the CIX into the CIX member network
     -----

     The following report outlines CIX-WEST usage for the
     month of January, 1993.

     CIX             In                        Out
     Member          Octets   Packets Errors  Octets   Packets  Errors
     --------------- ----------------------- -------------------------
     AlterNet        2.28e10  1.03e8  7.85e3  1.38e10  1.09e8   0.00e0
     BARRNet/NEARnet 9.01e8   4.11e6  6.53e3  3.28e10  1.38e8   0.00e0
     CERFNet         2.79e10  1.68e8  1.09e3  3.17e10  1.31e8   0.00e0
     PSINet          2.64e10  1.35e8  3.20e1  1.69e10  7.70e7   0.00e0
     SprintLink      1.91e10  5.74e7  8.30e1  2.06e9   1.26e7   0.00e0

     Starting: Dec 31 1992 at 23:53
     Ending: Feb 1 1993 at 00:14
     SNMP Polling Intervals: 4657
     SNMP Polling Frequency: 15 minutes

     In - traffic entering the CIX from the CIX member network
     Out - traffic exiting the CIX into the CIX member network

     At the present time, approximately 1800 networks within the CIX
     membership are using the CIX-WEST.  The CIX membership currently
     routing through CIX-WEST consists of:




Cooper                                                         [Page 12]

Internet Monthly Report                                     January 1993


             AlterNet
             CERFNet
             PSINet
             SprintLink
             The Nordic Carriers (via AlterNet)
             EUNET (via AlterNet)
             PIPEX (via AlterNet)
             BARRNet
             NEARNet

     Send mail to info@cix.org for information regarding the CIX.

     Mark Fedor  fedor@psi.com

ISI
---

  GIGABIT NETWORKING

  Infrastructure

                                Trip Report
                          ARRNET's Networkshop '92
                  Japan Network Information Center Meeting
                               December 1992
                             Joyce K. Reynolds
                     USC/Information Sciences Institute

  The Eighth Australian Networkshop (Networkshop '92)

     Networkshop '92 was held at the University of Queensland (UQ) in
     Brisbane, Australia from 2nd to 4th December 1992.  It is the annual
     national workshop of the academic and research networking community.
     The workshop attracted over 440 participants involved in networking,
     computer-based communications, and usage of electronic communications
     from throughout Australia, New Zealand and around the world.

     The initial plenary consisted of a greeting by Professor B. Wilson,
     Vice Chancellor, UQ and opening remarks by Professor D. McNicol, Vice
     Chancellor, Sydney University.  Joyce K. Reynolds was the Opening
     Keynote Speaker for the Networkshop presenting, "User Services
     Planning in the Internet".

     Her talk included a discussion of the role of the Internet Society,
     the Internet Architecture Board (IAB), the Internet Research Task
     Force (IRTF), the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), and its
     User Services Area in the development of user services for Internet
     information providers.



Cooper                                                         [Page 13]

Internet Monthly Report                                     January 1993


     The talk reviewed the current efforts of fourteen active working
     groups, within the User Services Area of the IETF, their future plans
     and objectives.  The RFC (Request for Comments) document series, and
     the FYI (For Your Information) series of notes was also be discussed.

     Peter Elford presented a talk on, "What is AARNet - A User's View".

     The Australian Academic and Research Network (AARNet) is a data
     communications network which interconnects LANS, uses the Internet
     Protocol and is a part of the global Internet which currently
     consists of 1,300,000 host systems and 7-14 million users.  AARNet
     provides infrastructural internetworking services to the national
     academic and research community, as well as connection services to
     sectors of the national and state governments and various
     governmental and commerical organizations.  As of October 1992,
     AARNet consisted of 56,000 host connections, 300 member
     organizations, and approximately 250,000 users.  AARNet is the
     largest and busiest non-US Internet.  Other non-IP networks include
     BITNET, JANET, Compuserve, X.400, X.25, UUCP, and FidoNet.
     Electronic mail is the only common services between these networks.

     The Internet is a very valuable resource due to its connectivity and
     the vast resources of its members.  The Internet provides a broad
     range of services, including remote login, electronic mail, File
     Transfer Protocol (FTP), and News Information servers.  There is a
     transparent LAN extension, and in many cases, the applications are
     free.

     AARNet's remote login is accomplished via Telnet, through the usual
     means of authentication.  Remote login links users to library
     catalogues, databases and information services.  AARNet utilizes
     anonymous FTP via a public access FTP server.  No password is
     required.  It provides the usual means of distributing and collecting
     information on the Internet.  There can be incompatible file types.
     Therefore, AARNet's file name identifies the following types:

                   .ps, .txt, .rtf

                   compressors, .Z
                   converter, .uu, .hqx
                   archivers, .arc, .tar, .zoo, .sit

     AARNet's electronic mail is the most basic of all the network
     applications, with the widest possible reach and contrasts via its
     speed, synchronization, and conferencing capabilities.






Cooper                                                         [Page 14]

Internet Monthly Report                                     January 1993


     Further information on the AARNet Network is reachable at:

             +61 6 249 3385
             +61 6 249 1369 (FAX)
             and via electronic mail to:
             aarnet@aarnet.edu.au

     Barbara Fraser presented a talk on, "The Computer Emergency Response
     Team (CERT) and Internet Security".

     The CERT was born out of the Internet Worm in 1988.  Three people
     were on staff at the CERT in 1988.  Currently, 14 people are staffing
     the CERT.  CERT offers a 24 hours point of contact, seven days a
     week, with its intent of helping victims in whatever level they need.

     In vendor relationships, the CERT not only assists top level vendors,
     but others on down the chain.  CERT encourages the user community and
     consumers to build security into their plans at the start.  The CERT
     IS NOT the Internet police.  They do not "do" investigations into
     computer breakins.  They do provide education and training and
     provide a number of documents and tools for the system administrator.
     It is impossible for one organization to respond to all needs.

     Computer incidents that were reported to the CERT when it was formed
     was one a day.  This doubles each year.  In 1988, the main "breakins"
     were exploiting passwords, or to exploit known vulnerabilities.

     The top five incidents include:

           exploiting passwords
           exploiting known vulnerabilities
           trusted system attacks
           TFTP attacks
           NIS attacks

     What should security policies address?

           acceptable use policy for users
           acceptable use policy of operations staff

     FYI 8, RFC 1244 (Holbrook, P., and J. Reynolds, Editors, "Site
     Security Handbook", July 1991) is a document that can assist in the
     development of appropriate security at a site.  The point is to
     minimize the damage when the incident occurs.







Cooper                                                         [Page 15]

Internet Monthly Report                                     January 1993


     Ken Day presented a talk on, "Security and the Australian Federal
     Police".

     Federal Law works in all states in Australia.  There is no individual
     state jurisdiction.  The number one point is that computer systems in
     Australia are considered Commonwealth computer systems.  This also
     applies to ANY computer system that contains information or data on
     behalf of the Commonwealth or at the direction of the Commonwealth.

     Computer restrictions and the crime that is directed against breakins
     are very broad.  This also includes carriers of ALL Commonwealth
     carriers (phones, microwaves, etc.).  Within the law, if convicted of
     an offense of a software violation, it is a minimum 6 months in
     prison.  On the hardware side, it is punishable of up to 10 years in
     prison.

     Are there any requirements to to protect from intrusion?  NO.  What
     about CPU time?  Waiting to see what the law says and what is
     currently being tested in the courts.  Right now, there isn't a need.
     The Australian Federal Police have what is called "Section 7", which
     includes a lot of case law on what is considered to be an "attempt"
     to breakin.

     The best lesson is to automatically assume you are vulnerable, until
     proven otherwise.  The spirit of cooperation includes the prompt
     action of the Australian Federal Police.  Their track record is good,
     but pretty slow.  The laws and administration of the Commonwealth of
     Australia are in control of the police department.

     An excellent paper of interest to the user services community was
     presented by Margaret Issacs, "Network Training and Related Issues",
     available via anonymous FTP from AARNET.EDU.AU, in
     /pub/networkshop92/papers.  File name: Isaacs.ps.  Also available is,
     "X.500 in Australia", by Andrew Waugh, which should interest the
     Directory Services/Information Services folks.  File name: X500.ps.

     Barbara Fraser, Nathaniel Borenstein and Joyce K. Reynolds discussed
     the impact of electronic communications between children using MIME.
     Nathaniel noted that those who have access to the Internet can use
     MIME to communicate with other children not only educationally, but
     in establishing pen pal relationships, globally.  Pictures can be
     sent with the MIME application along with exchanges of text in their
     native language.

  The Japan Network Information Center (JNIC) Committee

     Joyce K. Reynolds traveled to Tokyo, Japan to speak to Dr. Jun Murai,
     Mr.  Masaki Hirabaru, and the JNIC committee.  The JNIC Committee



Cooper                                                         [Page 16]

Internet Monthly Report                                     January 1993


     held meetings the third week in December at the University of Tokyo.

  Background on the Japan Network Information Center (JNIC)

     Because of the rapid escalation of the number of networks in Japan
     during the last few years, assignments and registrations for domain
     names and network numbers became too numerous to be carried out by
     voluntary groups.  The processing delay of number assignments and
     domain registration began to block the growth of Japanese computer
     networks.

     Furthermore, users who planned to join the Japanese Internet did not
     have a general services point to ask questions.  Network users sorely
     needed a repository for network related information.  Technical
     administrators needed to obtain information about other networks
     whenever trouble occurred, but there was no such existing database.
     The technical body of the Japan Committee of Research Networks (JCRN)
     discussed these needs and proposed the establishment of a network
     information center for Japanese computer networks.

     The Japan Network Information Center (JNIC) started its operation on
     December 1, 1991.  Its intent is to assign numbers, administrate
     names, and provide information services.  JNIC works with the
     cooperation of all related network projects in Japan.  Quick response
     and fairness are the most important requirements.

     The current administrative roles of JNIC are as follows:

           - IP network number assignments for Japan
           - JP domain name allocation
           - JP name server administration

     Criteria for number assignments and allocation is clearly defined and
     published.  This makes the processes simple to respond quickly and
     informs applicants of their own rights and responsibilities.
     Information such as domain names, IP network numbers, name servers,
     contact persons, and network projects are collected into the JNIC
     database to be retrieved via a WHOIS service.  JNIC cooperates with
     the Internet NIC to keep the database consistent.

     Current information services of JNIC are:

           - documentation distribution (FTP, Email, and postal mail)
           - WHOIS services (experimental)

     Most of the documentation is currently written in Japanese, but
     English versions are being prepared for Internet users.  The JNIC
     WHOIS services provide similar functions to the DDN NIC WHOIS.  JNIC



Cooper                                                         [Page 17]

Internet Monthly Report                                     January 1993


     provides on-line services on NIC.AD.JP and is reachable at
     JNIC@NIC.AD.JP.  They are currently trying to concentrate all the
     information about Japanese networks available in the NIC.AD.JP
     machine, so that it can be accessed via various standard methods
     including anonymous FTP.

     Joyce K. Reynolds attended the JNIC Committee's meeting at the
     University of Tokyo.  She presented to the committee and invited
     guests, "User Services Planning in the Internet".  She discussed with
     the group the future role of the yet unannounced National Science
     Foundation's (NSF) "InterNICs", the role and function of the Internet
     Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA), and the RFC series of notes.

     The RFC subseries of notes (For Your Information - FYI, and Standard
     - STD) and RFC document processing were discussed.  A query was asked
     by the participants regarding when the RFC Editor would publish RFCs
     in the Japanese language.  Joyce expressed that during her trip to a
     RARE meeting in Europe, David Sitman of Israel (EARN) had the same
     query about publishing RFC documents in Hebrew.  Joyce stated that
     English will still be the "official" publication language of RFCs.
     It is up to each country to identify and translate particular RFCs of
     interest into their native language.

     Joyce made mention that an example of this is currently going on in
     Czechoslovakia.  Jan Gruntorad, head of Czech FESnet, was a guest at
     a meeting that was held at Information Sciences Institute last
     October 23rd.  Jan expressed the importance of the user services work
     going on in the IETF and how it has helped his colleagues in
     Czechoslovakia.  They have specifically been taking various documents
     of interest in the FYI RFC series of notes and translating them into
     the native Czech language.  This helps students learn more about the
     Internet.

     Glenn Mansfield & Thomas Johannsen presented a talk on Intelligent
     Network Management and charting networks in the X.500 Directory.
     They have been working on this project for the last nine months, with
     funding from the Widely Integrated Distributed Environment project
     (WIDE).

     Currently, there is a vast information crunch.  In the beginning, the
     Internet was a small world, but now there are many, too many things
     going on in the Internet.  What we need is a map (like a road map).
     We need PHYSICAL picture of the network.  The road map analogy - how
     to reach places.  Speed limits, restaurant/restrooms, McDonalds,
     police-boxes, etc..

     While there are already network maps, like the WIDE maps and various
     global Internet Maps, these maps change a lot.  We are still in the



Cooper                                                         [Page 18]

Internet Monthly Report                                     January 1993


     primitive stages of how these maps can be organized.  If we utilize a
     network map the appropriate way, it can be for several purposes:

           configuration management
           root management
           fault management
           service management

     There is an enormous amount of information diversity.  When one
     accesses the NIP.AD.JP or the NIC.DDN.MIL, one is looking for
     information.  There is a MASSIVE DIVERSITY of information.  The
     information is different at different sites because updates take
     place at different times.  It is quasi static, unweilding, and
     growing to a point where it is almost unmanageable.


     Glenn Mansfield presented a talk on, "A Unified View - Using X.500
     Directory Services".

     The primary requirement is to experiment on X.500 for this type of
     service until something better comes up.  In the directory tree,
     start at the top level, mapping one by one; root, country,
     localities, organizations, units (already existing).

     Quipu exercise is interesting, but new - network focus - physical
     images, functional images.  How to present into a directory.
     Examples - leave the schema for another time.

     The ConMan Project - network configuration manual

     The ConMan Project at AIC System Laboratories and Tohoku University
     is investigating some of the following areas in relation to a network
     map pilot.  Furthermore, a global network information base can be
     used for:

        Services management:  Locate various services and servers in the
        network.

        Optimization:  The information available can be used to carry out
        various optimizations.  For example, cost, traffic, response time,
        etc.

        Provide mappings between the various names and addresses of
        elements.

        Depict administrative/automonous domains.

        Network Administration and Management:  References to people



Cooper                                                         [Page 19]

Internet Monthly Report                                     January 1993


        responsible for administering and technically maintaining a
        network will be useful.

     ConMan Project - related to network management and a network
     management framework - complex window dumps.  Click on window to get
     more information, using a standard directory user agent.  Envision a
     system with management applications.  Everything under one roof of
     the directory.

     SoftPages Project - optimize document retrieval

     The Soft Pages Project at Tohoku University, AIC System Laboratories
     and WIDE explores a way to optimize document retrieval by using a
     "shortest" way approach.

     SoftPages - cost computation - efficiently use the system - no cost
     calculation of FTP retrieval.  If they have a network map, they can
     tell the server, speeds of the traffic, etc..

     Cost is calculated as follows:

           cost = f(speed, traffic, charge, priority)

           cost = a*(1/speed) + b*traffic + c*charge + d*(1/priority)
                  c*(1/traffic)

     File server contents mirrored in the directory - not smart files in
     different places.

     Glenn and Thomas have also been in active discussions with Mark
     Knopper of Merit.

     Present status:

           network map for configuration management
           distributed database for world wide map
           many services and systems possible
           distributed framework

     Future Status:

           problem of scalability
           pilot implementation on a draft proposal
           net map displayed
           cost based network retrieve is being suggested
           more applications coming up





Cooper                                                         [Page 20]

Internet Monthly Report                                     January 1993


     Wide area NIC database:

     Have the uniformity and cooperation with other NICs.  Working on more
     DSAs.  More user agent experience and nice applications.  Timeframe:
     early March.

     NIC & X.500 DSAs:

     DSA on the NIC - but managed (one part) by a network manager and one
     organizational ISODE package.

     The JNIC committee held a question and answer session regarding the
     discussion.

     How should the JNIC jointly work with this project?  It is up to the
     JNIC.  Where to locate the database?  Usually cannot access a
     distributed database.  This needs a well thought out framework.  The
     access to the database must be taken care of.  This is an interesting
     proposal for the JNIC.

     Which is better?  To centralize or distribute the system?  What kind
     of information is needed for a map?  How big an information system is
     needed for the information?  Glenn's response is that the first step
     may not be very detailed.  Using current the NIC information, using a
     basic framework, and transferring from one database to another needs
     to be researched.  Work on this can be accomplished by sending out a
     questionnaire.

     Jun Murai and Joyce K. Reynolds met to discuss the A-P NIC (Asia-
     Pacific), currently under consideration by the Asia-Pacific Rim
     Internet communities.  Criteria focused on funding for supporting the
     JNIC in its future capacity as the A-P NIC.  The JNIC currently has
     continuous funding via WIDE, and Jun felt most of the potential
     problems of the new A-P NIC could be solved with funding.  He is
     currently working on the allocation of numbers and charging a fee for
     network numbers.

     Joyce and Jun discussed the similarities of the DDN NIC, the RIPE NCC
     and the proposed A-P NIC.  They also discussed the crucial
     interaction and cooperation with the IANA.  Jun expressed that his
     intent is to set up a proposed criteria and if it hits a grey area,
     it goes to a relevant mailing list.  GIX will be used for database
     routing - domestic on policy based routing.  GIX experiments are
     contingent on a consensus with Daniel Karrenberg of the RIPE NCC and
     the IEPG.  There will be a meeting regarding the A-P NIC at the
     University of Hawaii the second week of January.

  Joyce Reynolds (jkrey@isi.edu)



Cooper                                                         [Page 21]

Internet Monthly Report                                     January 1993


     24 RFCs were published this month.

     RFC 1387:  Malkin, G., "RIP Version 2 Protocol Analysis", Xylogics
                Inc., January 1993.

     RFC 1388:  Malkin, G., "RIP Version 2 Carrying Additional
                Information", Protocol Analysis", Xylogics Inc.,
                January 1993.

     RFC 1389:  Malkin, G., (Xylogics Inc.) and F. Baker, (Advanced
                Computer Communications) "RIP Version 2 MIB Extension",
                January 1993.

     RFC 1390:  Katz, D., "Transmission of IP and ARP over FDDI
                Networks" Cisco Systems, Inc., January 1993.

     RFC 1391:  Malkin, G., "The TAO of IETF - A Guide for New Attendees
                of the Internet Engineering Task Force", Xylogics Inc.,
                January 1993.

     RFC 1392:  Malkin, G., (Xylogics Inc.) and T. LaQuey Parker, (Utexas)
                "Internet Users' Glossary", January 1993.

     RFC 1393:  Malkin, G., "Traceroute Using an IP Option", Xylogics
                Inc., January 1993.

     RFC 1394:  Robinson, P., "Relationship of Telex Answerback Codes to
                Internet Domains", Tansin A. Darcos and Co., January 1993.

     RFC 1395:  Reynolds, J.K., " BOOTP Vendor Information Extensions",
                USC/ISI, January 1993.

     RFC 1396:  Crocker, S., "The Process for Organization of Internet
                Standards Working Group (POISED" Trusted Information
                Systems, Inc., January 1993.

     RFC 1397:  Haskin, D., "Default Route Advertisement in BGP2 And
                BGP3 Versions of The Border Gateway Protocol" Bolt
                Beranek and Newman, Inc., January 1993.

     RFC 1398:  Kastenholz, F., "Definitions of Managed Objects for the
                Ethernet-like Interface Types", January 1993..

     RFC 1401:  Internet Architecture Board, Lyman Chapin, Chair,
                "Correspondence between the IAB and DISA on the use of
                DNS throughout the Internet", January 1993.





Cooper                                                         [Page 22]

Internet Monthly Report                                     January 1993


     RFC 1402:  Martin, J., "There's Gold in Them Thar Neworks! or
                Searching for Treasure in all the Wrong Places", Ohio
                State University, January 1993.

     RFC 1403:  Varadhan, K., "BGP OSPF Interaction", OARnet,
                January 1993.

     RFC 1404:  Stockman, B., "A Model for Common Operational Statistics",
                NORDUnet/SUNET, January 1993.

     RFC 1405:  Allocchio, C., "Mapping between X.400(1984/1988) and
                Mail-11 (DECnet mail)", I.N.F.N. - Italy, January 1993.

     RFC 1406:  Baker, F., (Advanced Computer Communications), J. Watt,
                (Newbridge Networks Corporation) Editors, January 1993.

     RFC 1407:  Cox, T., and K. Tesink "Definitions of Managed Objects
                for the DS3/E3 Interface Type", Bell Communications
                Research January 1993.

     RFC 1408:  Borman, D., "Telnet Environment Option", Cray Research,
                Inc., January 1993.

     RFC 1409:  Borman, D., "Telnet Authentication Option", Cray
                Research, Inc., January 1993.

     RFC 1411:  Borman, D., "Telnet Authentication: Kerberos Version 4",
                Cray Research, Inc., January 1993.

     RFC 1412:  Alagappan, K., "Telnet Authentication: SPX", Digital
                Equipment Corporation", January 1993.

     RFC 1415:  Mindel, J., and R. Slaski, "FTP-FTAM Gateway
                Specification", Open NEtworks, Inc., January 1993.

     Ann Westine Cooper (Cooper@ISI.EDU)

     MULTIMEDIA CONFERENCING

     Internet packet audio and video tools such as INRIA's IVS, LBL's
     vat, PARC's nv, and UMass' NEVOT have become quite popular over the
     past year.  Combined with LBL's Session Directory tool (sd), these
     programs implement a "loose control" style of session management
     that is particularly appropriate for large "seminar" events such as
     the IETF audio/videocasts.  For smaller conferences with an
     explicit set of participants, a "tight control" style of session
     management that exchanges state information among the participants
     can add several useful services, including:



Cooper                                                         [Page 23]

Internet Monthly Report                                     January 1993


       - an explicit request for participation by a callee, perhaps
         with a small pop-up window, and an explicit reply (no answer,
         busy/refuse, accept);

       - key exchange to implement security measures such as
         authentication of conferees and data confidentiality and
         integrity;
       - negotiation of session parameters, such as selecting a
         compatible compression algorithm and data rate.

     To allow the same audio and video tools to be used with both loose-
     and tight-control session management, we have begun to modify our
     conference control program, MMCC, to invoke these tools in addition
     to our VT and PVP tools that we have used previously for
     experiments using both ST-II and IP multicast.  MMCC will implement
     session key exchange to be coupled with DES encryption in vat or
     other tools to achieve confidentiality of the data stream.  As a
     first step, the session key may be protected only by a manually
     prearranged private key, but for the longer term we are
     investigating how to integrate mechanisms such as those in PEM or
     Kerberos with MMCC's reliable control communication paths.

     To go beyond confidentiality, we are working to identify the range
     of security threats that may exist for applications such as
     conferencing and to prioritize the utility and implementability of
     security services to combat them.  To implement these services will
     likely require a more sophisticated interface between session
     management and the audio/video tools than simple program
     initiation; we are also studying these interface requirements.

     Steve Casner, Eve Schooler (casner@ISI.EDU, schooler@ISI.EDU)

JVNCNET
-------

     JvNCnet-Global Enterprise Services, Inc.
     B6 von Neumann Hall, Princeton, NJ  08544; 1-800-35-TIGER

     I.  New Information
         A.  New on-line members (fully operational January 93)

             Association of American Medical Colleges, Washington, DC
             Bibliomation, Stratford, CT
             Computer Command and Control Company, Phila., PA.
             Focused Research International, Inc., Leonardtown,MD
             Materials and Technologies, Hopewell Junction, NY
             A. Patrizio, Stamford, CT
             Pepsi-Cola, Somers, NY



Cooper                                                         [Page 24]

Internet Monthly Report                                     January 1993


             The Radburn Group, Fair Lawn, NJ
             WakeUp, Red Bank,NJ
             B. Weger, Yardville, NJ

     II. Symposia Series
         A.  Internet Resources and Applications Symposium
             February 19, 1993, 8:45 am to approx. 4:30 pm
             Princeton Marriott Forrestal Village, 201 Village Rd.,
             Plainsboro, NJ.  Via U. S. Rt. 1, get off at College Road
             - Forrestal Village exit,  and follow signs to Marriott.
             (5 min. north of Princeton on U.S. Rt. 1)

     The symposium is targeted to new and intermediate Internet users
     and anyone interested in learning about the benefits of Internet
     communications.  A panel of experts will discuss on-line resources,
     Internet functions such as file transfer, remote computing, new
     network tools to locate and deliver distributed information.  Guest
     speakers include: Steve Burdick, MERIT, Inc.; Dan Oberst, Princeton
     University; John Garrett, CNRI; David Rodgers, Amer. Math. Society;
     Martin Loveless, Mead Data Central, Dr. David Magier, Columbia
     University.           $275.00 is the cost for all non-JvNCnet
     member registrations received before February 9, 1993. Early bird
     registration for JvNCnet members is $250 also by February 9.  Fee
     includes lunch and a reference book.  To register or to receive the
     complete agenda, contact Rochelle Hammer at 609-258-2409 or send
     electronic mail inquiries to hammer@jvnc.net.

         B.  March, 1993 'Introduction to Protocols' sequence of courses.
             Seminars 2 and 3 will include discussion on interconnectivity
             to TCP/IP.Audience:  Network operations technicians and
             systems administrators responsible for managing a site's
             network and implementing decision-making. It is also relevant
             for personnel who support TCP/IP, Novell or DECnet users
             and manage network resources.

              1.  March 16 - Introduction to Data Communications and TCP/IP
              2.  March 17 - An Introduction to Netware (Novell) Protocols
              3.  March 18 - Introduction to DECnet (Digital) Protocols

     For further information about the March seminars or to add your
     name to the symposia mailing list,  send email to hammer@jvnc.net.

     by Rochelle Hammer (hammer@jvnc.net).








Cooper                                                         [Page 25]

Internet Monthly Report                                     January 1993


NEARNET (NEW ENGLAND ACADEMIC AND RESEARCH NETWORK)
---------------------------------------------------

     As of January 28, 1993, NEARnet has grown to a total of 188 member
     organizations.

     During the week of January 11th, several NEARnet representatives
     participated in the Networld '93 Conference which was held at the
     Hynes Convention Center in Boston, Massachusetts.  NEARnet provided
     the Internet connection for the Novell, Inc. and NEARnet conference
     booths.  Hundreds of people stopped by the NEARnet booth to learn
     more about NEARnet and the Internet.

     John Curran of the NEARnet Staff presented a discussion on library
     access to the Internet at the NERCOMP Resources Seminar in Waltham,
     Massachusetts on January 8.

     The December issue of the "NEARnet This Month" bulletin has been
     distributed.  Past issues are available via anonymous FTP at
     nic.near.net, in the directory newsletters/nearnet-this-month.

     by Corinne Carroll <ccarroll@nic.near.net>

     NORTHWESTNET

     In addition to the many operational activities in January 1993, the
     NorthWestNet staff were busy presenting at a wide variety of
     meetings throughout the country.  Among these presentations were
     the following:

             "Bridging Challenges and Opportunities:
              Regional Networks and Internet Access for Libraries"
              Dr. Eric S. Hood, Executive Director, NorthWestNet
              January 23, 1993
              American Library Association Midwestern Meeting
              Denver, CO

             "Transition to the Next Generation NSFNET"
              Dan Jordt, Dir. of Technical Services, NorthWestNet
              January 21, 1993
              MERIT's Annual Regional Technical Meeting
              Boulder, CO

             "Enabling Education through National Networking"
              Jan Eveleth, Dir. of User Services, NorthWestNet
              January 30, 1993
              Northwest Council for Computer Education '93
              Portland, OR



Cooper                                                         [Page 26]

Internet Monthly Report                                     January 1993


     -----------------
     NorthWestNet                            info@nwnet.net
     15400 SE 30th Place, Suite 202          Phone: (206) 562-3000
     Bellevue, WA  98007                     Fax: (206) 562-4822

     Dr. Eric S. Hood, Executive Director
     Jan Eveleth, Director of User Services
     Dan L. Jordt, Director of Technical Services
     Anthony Naughtin, Manager of Member Relations

     NorthWestNet serves the six state region of Alaska, Idaho, Montana,
     North Dakota, Oregon, and Washington.

     by Jan Eveleth <eveleth@nwnet.net>

NNSC, UCAR/BOLT BERANEK and NEWMAN, INC.
----------------------------------------

     NNSC Transition
     ---------------

     The National Science Foundation (NSF) has recently awarded the
     Network Information Services Manager(s) solicitation to three
     organizations.  General Atomics, which currently operates CERFnet
     and the San Diego Supercomputer Center, will provide INTERNIC
     Information Services for the NSFNET and the NREN.  Network
     Solutions which has been involved in operating the DDN NIC since
     1992 will provide registration services.  AT&T will provide
     directory and database services.

     This award expands the scope of services which have previously been
     supplied by several parties, including the NSF Network Service
     Center (NNSC).  The combined Network Information Services Managers
     will assume responsibility for providing these services.  The NNSC
     is assisting in this transition.

     THE SCIENTIST Update
     --------------------

     The latest issue of THE SCIENTIST is available via anonymous FTP at
     nnsc.nsf.net, in the directory named "the-scientist".  This
     directory is also available via the NNSC Info-Server, an automated
     program which delivers information via electronic mail.

     To receive the help file for the Info-Server, in addition to an
     index and an overview of "the-scientist" directory, send mail to:
     info-server@nnsc.nsf.net.  In the body of the message type the
     lines:



Cooper                                                         [Page 27]

Internet Monthly Report                                     January 1993


     Request: the-scientist
     Topic:   help
     Topic:   index
     Topic:   overview
     Request: end

     Information contained within "the-scientist" directory on the
     nnsc.nsf.net machine may now also be searched and retrieved via
     WAIS servers.

     Corinne Carroll <ccarroll@nnsc.nsf.net>

NSFNET/ANSNET BACKBONE ENGINEERING
----------------------------------

     Network Status Summary
     ======================

     The NSFNET Regional-Techs met in Boulder, CO on January 21-22 to
     discuss several topics, notibly issues relating to the
     implementation of Classless Inter-Domain Routing (CIDR). It is
     critical that Merit work together with the regionals and other
     network providers toward the goal of conserving routing table size
     and IP network numbers.

     The dismantling of the T1 NSS equipment at each regional network
     site will begin in February.

     Internal ANSnet routing stability continues to exceed 99%.  We
     continue to collect both internal and external routing stability
     information for engineering analysis.

     New router software support is being deployed to better support
     multihomed client networks, and networks that peer with a single
     ENSS across both FDDI and ethernet.

     Testing and planning continued in January for the deployment of the
     new AIX 3.2 operating system on the RS/6000 routers, which begins
     in March.

     Backbone Traffic and Routing Statistics
     =======================================

     The total inbound packet count for the T3 Backbone (measured using
     SNMP interface counters) was 24,015,504,082 up 9.1% from December.

     As of January 31, the number of networks configured in the NSFNET
     Policy Routing Database was 9118 for the T3 backbone. Of these,



Cooper                                                         [Page 28]

Internet Monthly Report                                     January 1993


     1950 were never announced to the T3 backbone.  The maximum number
     of networks announced to the T3 backbone during the month (from
     samples collected every 15 minutes) was 6537.  Average announced
     networks on 1/31 were 6503.  Merit is working with the regionals to
     reduce the number of "silent" nets in the policy routing database.

     The overall average number of networks announced via the primary
     configured AS path was around 88% in January.  Graphs of this
     information are available for anonymous ftp on merit.edu, in
     pub/nsfnet/offnet, as postscript files.

     NSFNET Regional-Techs Meeting
     =============================

     Merit sponsored a meeting of the NSFNET Regional-Techs in Boulder,
     Colorado during January 21-22, 1993. The meeting was generously
     hosted by Roy Perry of US West.  Most of the regionals and
     midlevels were represented, along with commercial network service
     providers, router vendors, government agency network providers and
     NSF.

     The purpose of the meeting was to allow the regional-techs to get
     together and have a focused discussion about networking plans. The
     Internet is evolving and direct action by the network operators and
     router vendors needs to take place in the near term (6-8 months) in
     order to provide a network architecture that allows for expected
     growth rates.  Last November, The Internet Engineering Task Force
     discussions indicated that the NSFNET Backbone Service and regional
     networks should move quickly to implement CIDR.

     The topics covered in the meeting were: 1) GIX, NAPs, Route Servers
     (discussion led by Elise Gerich of Merit); 2) Implementation of
     CIDR and Supernetting (led by Vince Fuller of BARRnet); 3) Address
     allocation strategies with CIDR (led by Dan Long of NEARnet); 4)
     Transition to "Next Generation NSFNET" (led by Dan Jordt of
     NorthWestNet); 5) Current Status /Problems (led by Mark Knopper);
     and 6) Virtual Routes (led by Bilal Chinoy of SDSC). A more
     detailed summary of the meeting will soon be available from Merit.

     CIDR/Supernetting Implementation
     ================================

     Resulting from the meeting discussion there are several action
     items for implementation of CIDR and supernetting. These include
     pruning the "silent nets" from the NSFNET Policy Routing Database
     (PRDB), developing an agreement for adding new networks to the
     database, and having regionals obtain a CIDR block of class C
     addresses for their customers. Merit, IBM and ANS are working on



Cooper                                                         [Page 29]

Internet Monthly Report                                     January 1993


     implementation of BGP-4, a configuration scheme to handle route
     aggregation, as well as the capability of internally aggregating
     routing information.

     Merit has started a project to analyze the PRDB to look for
     networks that are not being announced to the backbone.  Merit has
     been sending each regional/AS administrator lists of the "silent
     nets" for their autonomous system.  Since routers in networks
     carrying full routing information (such as the ANSnet ENSS and CNSS
     nodes) support only a finite number of networks in their tables, it
     makes sense to prune out of the database any networks not being
     used and not expected to be used in the near future. We would like
     the database to reflect more closely the actual or current state of
     network announcements in the Internet.  At this writing there have
     been indications that 142 network numbers can be deleted.

     Regionals have agreed to apply for blocks of continuous, bit-
     aligned class C network numbers for assignment to member or
     affiliate networks.  This will allow routing information for new
     networks to be aggregated once CIDR is implemented. When class B
     networks must be used, eg. in the interim before CIDR, where many
     networks are coming online at once subnetting should be used to
     conserve routing table space. Regionals should avoid requesting
     network numbers to be added to the PRDB until just before they are
     expected to be actually announced.

     Finally, an Internet Draft is being written by Yakov Rekhter (IBM)
     and Claudio Topolcic (CNRI), called "Exchanging Routing Information
     across Provider/Subscriber boundaries in CIDR environment".


     T1 NSS Dismantling
     ==================

     Starting in the second half of February, as part of the T1 NSFNET
     NSS Dismantling Plan, IBM Customer Engineers will be visiting each
     of the NSFNET sites in order to dismantle the existing router
     equipment used to support the T1 backbone network, which was
     disconnected in December '92.   For the purpose of serving OSI
     Encapsulation requirements, two RT machines equipped with one set
     of monitor and keyboard will remain on-site.  The details of this
     plan have been discussed with the various regional technical site
     contacts.








Cooper                                                         [Page 30]

Internet Monthly Report                                     January 1993


     Routing Software and Stability on the T3 Network
     ================================================

     The ANSnet internal routing stability report summarizes outages
     based on number and duration of the IBGP disconnects using methods
     described in the December '92 report.  The internal routing
     stability data should not be confused with availability or uptime.
     For example, ENSS206 experienced down time due to a T1 circuit
     failure, but there were no routing transitions involved, so this
     was not credited as instable routing time.

     The data for January indicates good internal routing stability.
     The entire ANS network achieved better than 99% stability (no BGP
     disconnects anywhere in the network 99% of the time).  This
     includes routing disconnects due to configuration changes and
     scheduled maintenance.  Only 4 nodes experienced less than 99.9%
     stability.  ENSS143 due to intermittent circuit problems that were
     traced to local telco equipment on the campus.  ENSS150, ENSS152,
     and ENSS206 saw between 99.84% to 99.87% instability (about 1 hour
     of instability all month).   ENSS150 suffered one 41 minute outage
     due to DSU equipment failure.  ENSS206 (Geneva) suffered from
     trouble with the T1 circuit which was repaired.  ENSS152 had power
     problems at the site.  All other nodes reported 99.9% stability or
     better over the course of the month.

     The external stability reports indicate that during January,
     211,763 BGP updates were received from 490 distinct AS paths.
     These updates contained 622,375 network numbers (or an average of
     2.9 networks per update or 1270.2 updates per AS path). There were
     1,613 distinct network numbers.  The most unstable network during
     this period was contained in 6,278 unreachables. The average
     network was declared unreachable 385 times during the month and the
     worst-case was declared unreachable 6,278 times during the month.

     Routing Software Change for FDDI/Ethernet Configurations
     ========================================================

     Several ENSS routers now have FDDI cards installed.  A common
     configuration involves a single peer router that interconnects to
     the ENSS using both the FDDI and ethernet interface.  The intention
     is to use the faster FDDI as primary and the ethernet as a backup.
     Two commonly asked questions are:

     1. "Does the ENSS respect EGP external metrics or BGP interAS
         metrics sent by the peer routers?".  The answer is "yes"
         for EGP and BGP.





Cooper                                                         [Page 31]

Internet Monthly Report                                     January 1993


     2. "How do I configure my router to send a different EGP
         external metric or BGP interAS metric for each interface?". The
         answer is "you can't" for several peer routers. Several peer
         routers don't support two interfaces bordering the same AS to
         advertise different EGP external metrics, or BGP interAS metrics.

     ENSS software and configuration changes have been implemented to
     provide an EGP external metric or BGP interAS metric on a per
     interface basis.  On the ENSS configuration file, if "validate" is
     not set on the "neighbor" lines, "metricin" currently provides the
     policy metric on a per AS basis.  Previously "metricin" served no
     purpose if "validate" was used. Now, if "validate" is used,
     "metricin" will serve as a bias, added to the EGP external metrics
     provided as EGP distances in EGP updates, and bias the BGP interAS
     metric or provide a default BGP interAS metric if none is provided
     in a BGP update.

     This method allows the FDDI to be preferred over the ethernet in
     both directions, and requires no changes to the software on peer
     routers. By providing a bias, it also handles the case where
     multiple peer routers want to split load over the FDDI and use an
     ethernet as a backup for each router.

     Multiple AS's for Multi-Homed Peer Networks
     ==========================================

     Several customers that peer with ANSnet at multiple ENSS locations
     have asked why we assign a unique AS to the client for each unique
     ENSS rather than having only one AS number announce the system to
     ANSnet.

     It is possible to have only one AS announce the system.  Both the
     Policy Routing Database and rcp_routed routing software can support
     it.  The drawback is that ANSnet routes the nearest exit point to
     the AS rather than to the exit point designated as primary.  This
     is a consequence of using "region" routes.  If there are two exit
     points to a region, any given ANSnet node will route everything
     destined for that region on the one route it has to the region.
     The advantage of this is that it reduces the number of forwarding
     table changes required during an interior routing transient. As an
     example, consider the following picture:

     AS 6 / ENSS5 <---> CNSS10 <---> CNSS20
              ^-------> CNSS11 <-------^

     AS 6 is host to 1000 IP networks.  CNSS10 is the primary path from
     CNSS20 to ENSS5. If we had a flat (one stage) lookup table, CNSS20
     would have 1000 networks pointing to CNSS10 as the next hop.  If



Cooper                                                         [Page 32]

Internet Monthly Report                                     January 1993


     CNSS10 goes down, we make 1000 changes to those routes, making
     CNSS11 the next hop.

     With a two stage lookup, we normally have 1000 networks claiming to
     be part of AS 6, and we have one route for AS 6 listing CNSS10 as
     its next hop.  If CNSS10 goes down, we make 1 change to that route,
     making CNSS11 the next hop.  The drawback is that a router can't
     distinguish between different exit points of the same AS.  We
     implement the routing policy by determining the shortest path to a
     peer for any given network and then setting that exit point to our
     AS the primary, and so on for secondary, tertiary, etc.  So we want
     to keep the ANSnet feature for policy routing, although the extra
     AS numbers should be extraneous and we have work in progress that
     will eliminate the need for it.

     With the upcoming AIX 3.2 software deployment, we will replace
     region routes with network routes.  Rcp_routed software will still
     use regions for the forwarding.  Shortly after AIX 3.2 deploys we
     expect to be using GATED.  At that time ANSnet could support a
     multihomed AS without loss of policy capability.

     RS960 FDDI Deployment Status
     ============================

     During the month of December, we installed RS960 FDDI adapters at
     ENSS131 (Ann Arbor - 1/8 Installed).  During February we are
     scheduled to install FDDI adapters on ENSS141 (Boulder), and
     ENSS142 (WestNet).

     CNSS97 Problems
     ===============

     We have experienced three failures during January with the CNSS97
     (Denver) router which results in the reset of several T3
     interfaces.  This causes the ENSS141, ENSS142 nodes to fallback to
     the T1 backup paths.  We have scheduled hardware maintenance for
     this router in early February to correct this problem.  We will
     rehome ENSS141, ENSS142 to another CNSS during this maintenance.

     AIX 3.2 Migration Plan Status
     =============================

     System testing continued in January.  Several problems were
     identified and fixed, although the deployment has been delayed as a
     result.  The software will be installed on the testnet in early
     February for final system testing prior to deployment in early
     March.  We will be in contact with each ENSS client in February to
     plan for this deployment.



Cooper                                                         [Page 33]

Internet Monthly Report                                     January 1993


     New ANSnet Nodes Installed in January
     =====================================

     ENSS      Customer        Access    Date Active
     ----      --------        ------    -----------
     E211/E212 Dow Chemical    2xT1      01/05
     E216      Motorola        56K       01/05
     E210      US Senate       56K       01/08
     E213      ISSC            T1        01/12
     E215      RIS             56K       01/19
     E217      ANS Back-up     56K       01/27

     Mark Knopper (mak@merit.edu)
     Jordan Becker (becker@ans.net)

NSFNET/INFORMATION SERVICES
---------------------------

     A new version of the internet draft "FYI on Introducing the
     Internet--A Short Bibliography of Introductory Internetworking
     Readings for the Network Novice" is now available.  The authors,
     Ellen Hoffman, manager of Merit Network's Information Services, and
     Lenore Jackson, of the NASA Ames Research Center, have cited more
     newly published materials including the "Internet Users' Glossary"
     and "The Internet Companion:  A Beginner's Guide to Global
     Networking."  The Short Bibliography and the resources available at
     no charge online via the Internet that it cites, may be obtained
     from nic.merit.edu in the directory /introducing.the.internet using
     Anonymous FTP.

     An access guide to /introducing.the.internet describes the
     resources and several methods for retrieving them:  Anonymous FTP,
     electronic mail query, archie, Gopher and WAIS.  The access.guide
     is available via e-mail by sending a message to nis-
     info@nic.merit.edu with the first line of the text of the message

                  send access.guide

     A panel of archie, Gopher and WAIS experts will be a special
     feature of the Merit Networking Seminar, March 15-16, at the San
     Francisco Airport Hilton.  Alan Emtage, co-creator of archie; Mark
     McCahill, Gopher project leader; and George Bret, National WAIS
     Clearinghouse; will discuss "Information Delivery on the Internet-
     -Present and Future."  Featured speakers at "Making Your Internet
     Connection Count:  Technology Tools & Resources" will include Tom
     Grundner, creator of the Cleveland Freenet; Perry Samson, U-M
     Weather Underground; Jean Armour Polly, Director of Information
     Services, NYSERNET, Inc.; and Paul Evan Peters, Executive Director,



Cooper                                                         [Page 34]

Internet Monthly Report                                     January 1993


     Coalition for Networked Information. Hosted by BARRNET, the Merit
     Networking Seminar is a comprehensive forum intended for beginning
     and intermediate network users.  A three-hour hands-on tutorial
     will be held in conjunction with the seminar at Stanford
     University, Palo Alto, CA.  Merit staff will introduce participants
     to telnet, file transfer, and the latest in user friendly
     interfaces:  Gopher, archie, and WAIS.  A text-only version of the
     brochure is available via Anonymous FTP to nic.merit.edu as the
     file /nsfnet/seminar.brochure.march93. An electronic mail message
     to nis-info@nic.merit.edu with the first line of text

              send seminar.brochure.march93

     will also retrieve the brochure.  Requests for hardcopy brochures
     and more information may be made to seminar@merit.edu or 313/936-
     3000.

     The NSFNET Regional Techs meeting sponsored by Merit and hosted by
     US West in Boulder, CO, during January 21 and 22 was attended by
     commercial network service providers, router vendors, government
     agency network providers and NSF, as well as most regionals and
     midlevels.  Direct action by network operators and router vendors
     is necessary in the next six to eight months to provide a network
     architecture which allows for the expected growth rate of the
     evolving Internet.  The purpose of the meeting was to provide a
     forum for focused discussion about networking plans among the
     regional techs.  IETF discussions last November recommended the
     implementation of a "Classless Inter-Domain Routing" architecture
     on the NSFNET Backbone Service and regional networks, which would
     change the nature of routing protocols and the interaction between
     routing domains.  Vince Fuller, BARRNET, led the discussion on the
     implementation of CIDR, and Dan Long, NEARnet, pursued CIDR address
     allocation strategies.  Transition to the "Next Generation NSFNET"
     was a topic for discussion by Dan Jordt, NorthWestNet, with Peter
     Ford of the NSF Network Engineering Group presenting an overview of
     the upcoming solicitation for the follow-on NSFNET architecture.
     Elise Gerich, Merit, spoke on "GIX, NAPs and Route Servers" in the
     context of experiments to verify the technology and upcoming
     activities to support routing on this network.  An overview of the
     NSFNET network status, including the dismantling of the T1 backbone
     and deployment of FDDI cards, was presented by Mark Knopper, Merit.










Cooper                                                         [Page 35]

Internet Monthly Report                                     January 1993


     FARNET convened in Denver, with Eric Aupperle, President of Merit
     Network, Inc.; Jim Williams, Merit Associate Director for National
     Networking; and Jeff Ogden, Merit/MichNet Associate Director
     attending. Chris Weider represented Merit's information delivery
     initiatives at the Coalition of Networked Information (CNI)
     sponsored meeting in Denver, which explored the issues surrounding
     data elements for electronic resources and U.S. MARC standards.

     Jo Ann Ward (jward@merit.edu)

UCL
----

     Since the last report, dated 18th November 1992, the MICE Project
     (Multimedia International Conferencing for Europe) has officially
     started, and has performed its first demonstration of video from
     H.261 codecs across the EuropaNet (European Multi-Protocol
     Backbone), between the DFN Showcase in Bonn, and the Department of
     Computer Science at UCL.  For this demonstration we used a
     SparcStation IPC with Sun HSI board and a GPT System 261 video
     codec at each site.

     Our original plans to transmit the stream over EuropaNet using UDP
     had to be modified when network throughput/delay tests revealed
     there to be periodic (every minute, then 20 seconds later) delay
     spikes of around 2 seconds, with accompanying high rates of packet
     loss.  The data stream from the codec is H.261 video, with H.221
     serial line protocol framing.  If we suffer packet loss, the codec
     loses H.221 (and H.261) synchronisation, and then takes around 10
     seconds to regain synchronisation.  Clearly, over a network with
     these characteristics, with fixed bit rate data from the codec, UDP
     will not provide us with continuous video.

     For the purposes of this demonstration (and due in part to the
     short timescales involved), we decided that with enough buffering
     to allow for retransmissions, TCP would be a better option.  We
     also modified TCP to reduce the effects of slow start and to
     maintain a suitable window size, thus reducing the recovery time
     after one of these delay/loss spikes.  The results of this were a
     successful demonstration, with continuous video for the 20 minutes
     of the demonstration.

     Clearly however, even a modified TCP is not really appropriate for
     this sort of fixed data rate traffic, if we require minimal
     latency.  In this case, the demonstration was a talk, so the
     problems of interactivity with large buffers was reduced.  We are
     addressing alternative approaches in a number of ways:




Cooper                                                         [Page 36]

Internet Monthly Report                                     January 1993


     o  We can perform H.221 frame alignment in software on the
        transmitting SparcStation, and packetise the video in H.221
        sub-multiframes.  Thus when, as with UDP, a packet is lost, we
        can reconstruct a dummy sub-multiframe at the receiver to
        prevent the codec losing H.221 synchronisation.  This should
        reduce the re-synchronisation time, but is likely to cause quite
        severe image corruption due to the lack of synchronisation
        between H.261 and H.221 frames.  However, this approach may
        still be useful, as we can then request a intra-coded frame, so
        the corruption should be transient.

     o  However we do not really believe that we should be packetising
        H.221 frames at all, but rather we should be sending raw H.261
        video, which is asynchronous in nature.  This is made simplest
        if the codec manufacturers can be persuaded to break raw H.261
        out of their equipment without H.221 framing.  To this end, we
        are currently talking to GPT, to see whether they would supply
        us with access to the raw H.261 frames, and to Bitfield - who
        already have an appropriate Codec (though unfortunately only as
        a PC card).  PictureTel and VideoTel currently do not seem to be
        interested in doing this, as the packet video community still
        does not appear to be taken seriously.  It appears likely that
        in the short term at least, we will have to interwork with
        codecs providing H.221 framing, and so we are writing software
        to strip off H.221 framing, transmit the raw H.261 video, and
        reconstruct H.221 framing at the remote site.  This also gives
        us more sensible packetisation options, which will minimise the
        image corruption due to packet loss.

     For the MICE project, UCL has the responsibility of providing the
     mixing and multiplexing hub for multi-way conferences.  Currently
     the only way to do this at reasonable quality is to allocate a
     codec for each remote site.  Clearly this is rather expensive.  We
     are planning to investigate the rate at which we can decode an
     H.261 signal in software on fast Sparc machines (currently a
     SparcStation 10/30, later a 690).  This aim of this is to
     eventually decode up to four incoming H.261 video streams, and mix
     (quad-multiplex) them in software, then recode the mixed video
     using a codec, and multicast the resultant stream back to all
     sites.

     THE PACKET VIDEO CONFERENCE AND RELATED ACTIVITY

     Handley and Kirstein attended the Packet Video conference at
     Raleigh.  They distributed a paper on MICE there, which is being
     sent to you by separate message.  It became clear that it would be
     impractical to interwork with the MCNC community in the near
     future, because they did not have the appropriate multimedia



Cooper                                                         [Page 37]

Internet Monthly Report                                     January 1993


     infrastructure according to any recognised standard - they were
     working with proprietary vendors' equipment.  However, DoE
     retiterated that they planned to have some H.261 facilities
     available by the summer.

     John Crowcroft (j.crowcroft@CS.UCL.AC.UK)













































Cooper                                                         [Page 38]

Internet Monthly Report                                     January 1993


CALENDAR
--------

Readers are requested to send in dates of events that are appropriate
for this calendar section.  Please send your submissions to
(cooper@isi.edu).

1993 CALENDAR

     Feb 1-5         ISO/IEC JTC1/SC6/WG3 and WG6, London
     Feb 8-12        ISO/IEC JTC1/SC6/WG1 and WG4, London
     Feb 11-12       PSRG Workshop on Network and Distributed
                     System Security, San Diego, Ca
     Feb 28-Mar 3    Modeling & Analysis of Telecommunication
                     Systems, Nashville, TN
     Mar 8-12        INTEROP93, Wasington, D.C.
                     Dan Lynch (dlynch@interop.com)
     Mar 8-12        OIW, NIST, Gaithersburg, MD
     Mar 8-12        IEEE802 Plenary, Omni Inner Harbor, Baltimore, MD
     Mar 15-19       Uniform, San Francisco
     Mar 24-31       CEBIT 93, Hannover, Germany
     Mar 29 - Apr 2, IETF, Columbus, Ohio
     Apr 5-19        TCOS WG, Boston (tentative)
     Apr 14-16       National Net'93, Wash D.C. (net93@educom.edu)
     Apr 18-23       IFIP WG 6.6 Third International Symposium
                     on Integrated Network Management, Sheraton
                     Palace Hotel, San Francisco, CA (kzm@hls.com)
     Apr 20-22       ANSI  X3S3.3, Orlando, FL
     May 10-13       4th Joint European Networking COnf., JENC93
                     Trondheim, Norway
     May 13-14       RARE Council of Administration, Trondheim
     May 23-26       ICC'93, Geneva, Switzerland
     May-Jun         PSTV-XIII, University of Liege.
                     Contact: Andre Danthine,
     Jun 2-4         ANSI  X3S3.3, Raleigh, NC
     Jun 7-11        OIW, NIST, Gaithersburg, MD
     Jun 15-30       ISO/IEC JTC1/SC21, Yokohama
     Jun 21-25       USENIX, Cincinnati
     Jun 30          RARE Technical Committee, Amsterdam
     Jul 12-16       IETF, Amsterdam, The Netherlands
     Jul 12-16       IEEE802 Plenary, Sheraton Denver Tech Center,Denver, CO
     Jul 12-16       TCOS WG,  Hawaii (tentative)
     Aug 1-6         Multimedia '93, Anaheim, CA
     Aug 17-20       INET '93, San Francisco, (Request@inet93.stanford.edu)
     Aug 23-27       INTEROP93, San Francisco
                     Dan Lynch (dlynch@interop.com)
     Sep 13-17       SIGCOMM 93, San Francisco




Cooper                                                         [Page 39]

Internet Monthly Report                                     January 1993


     Sep ??          6th SDL Forum, Darmstadt
                     Ove Faergemand (ove@tfl.dk)
     Sep 8-9         ANSI  X3S3.3, Boulder, CO
     Sep 13-17       OIW, NIST, Gaithersburg, MD
     Sep 20-31       ISO/IEC JTC1/SC6, Seoul, Korea.
     Sep 28-29       September RIPE Technical Days, TBC
     Sep 30-Oct 2    Paris
     Oct             INTEROP93, Paris, France
     Oct 12-14       Conference on Network Information Processing,
                     Sofia, Bulgaria;  Contact: IFIP-TC6
     Oct 18-22       TCOS WG, Atlanta, GA (tentative)
     Nov 2-4         ANSI  X3S3.3, TBD
     Nov 9-13        IEEE802 Plenary, Crown Sterling Suites,
                     Ft. Lauderdale, FL
     Nov 15-19       Supercomputing 93, Portland, OR
     Dec 6-10        OIW, NIST, Gaithersburg, MD

1994 CALENDAR

     Apr 18-22       INTEROP94, Washington, D.C.
                     Dan Lynch (dlynch@interop.com)
     Jun 1-3         IFIP WG 6.5 ULPAA, Barcelona, Spain
                     Einar Stefferud (stef@nma.com)
     Aug 28-Sep 2    IFIP World Computer Congress
                     Hamburg, Germany; Contact: IFIP
     Sep 12-16       INTEROP94, San Francisco
                     Dan Lynch (dlynch@interop.com)

1995 CALENDAR

     Sep 18-22       INTEROP95, San Francisco, CA
                     Dan Lynch (dlynch@interop.com)
========================================================================


















Cooper                                                         [Page 40]
