





~












APRIL 1991


INTERNET MONTHLY REPORTS
------------------------

The purpose of these reports is to communicate to the Internet Research
Group the accomplishments, milestones reached, or problems discovered by
the participating organizations.

     This report is for Internet information purposes only, and is not
     to be quoted in other publications without permission from the
     submitter.

Each organization is expected to submit a 1/2 page report on the first
business day of the month describing the previous month's activities.
These reports should be submitted via network mail to Ann Westine
(Westine@ISI.EDU) or Karen Roubicek (Roubicek@NNSC.NSF.NET).

TABLE OF CONTENTS

  INTERNET ACTIVITIES BOARD

     IAB MESSAGE  . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  3
     INTERNET RESEARCH REPORTS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  3
        AUTONOMOUS NETWORKS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  3
        END-TO-END SERVICES  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  3
     INTERNET ENGINEERING REPORTS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  4










Westine                                                         [Page 1]

Internet Monthly Report                                       April 1991


  Internet Projects

     BARRNET . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  6
     BOLT BERANEK AND NEWMAN, INC.,  . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  6
     CALSTATE. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  8
     CORNELL . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  9
     ISI . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 10
     JVNCNET, NORTH EAST RESEARCH REGIONAL NETWORK . . . . . . page 12
     LOS NETTOS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 14
     MERIT/MICHNET . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 14
     MITRE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 15
     NNSC, UCAR/BOLT BERANEK and NEWMAN, INC., . . . . . . . . page 15
     NSFNET BACKBONE, MERIT NETWORK, INC., . . . . . . . . . . page 15
     NDRE and NTA-RD . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 17
     PREPnet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 17
     SRI . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 17
     UCL . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 18
     UDEL. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 18
     WISCNET . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 18

  DIRECTORY SERVICES ACTIVITIES

     DIRECTORY SERVICES MESSAGE  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 20
     IETF OSIDS & DISI WORKING GROUPS. . . . . . . . . . . . . page 20
     FOX - FIELD OPERATIONAL X.500 PROJECT . . . . . . . . . . page 20
        ISI. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 21
        MERIT. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 21
        PSI. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 22
        SRI. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 22
     NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF STANDARDS AND TECHNOLOGY. . . . . . page 23
     NORTH AMERICAN DIRECTORY FORUM. . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 24
     OSI IMPLEMENTOR'S WORKSHOP (OIW). . . . . . . . . . . . . page 24
     PARADISE PROJECT. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 25
     PSI WHITE PAGES PILOT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 27
     REGISTRATION AUTHORITY COMMITTEE (ANSI USA RAC) . . . . . page 28
     SG-D MHS-MD . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 29















Westine                                                         [Page 2]

Internet Monthly Report                                       April 1991



IAB MESSAGE

     STANDARDS ACTIONS:

     The IAB has taken the following actions on standards since March
     1991, in accordance with recommendations by the IESG:

        * Proposed Standard state for OSI CLTS over UDP.  This is a
          companion to RFC-1006.

        * Proposed Standard state for PPP Extension to Bridging.
          This has been published as RFC-1220.

        * Draft Standard state for POP3 (RFC-1081).

        * Historic state for the POP3 Extension defined in RFC-1082.

     Bob Braden (Braden@ISI.EDU)

INTERNET RESEARCH REPORTS
-------------------------

     AUTONOMOUS NETWORKS
     -------------------

        There is nothing to report this month.

        Deborah Estrin (Estrin@USC.EDU)

     END-TO-END SERVICES
     -------------------

        The End-to-End Research Group held a two-day meeting at Bell
        Laboratories in Murray Hill, NJ.  Sandy Fraser and Krishnan
        Sabnani of AT&T as well as Dave Sicoskie and Ira Cotton of
        Bellcore participated in the meeting.

        Topics discussed included: alternative traffic control
        mechanisms, including the new VJ/DDC proposal; the extent and
        nature of the requirement for service guarantees; the need for
        hop-by-hop jitter control; the economics of public networks; the
        X-Kernel as a possible universal basis for protocol R&D; the
        need for admission control to limit congestion; how not to
        implement UDP; and how not to design a host interface.

        Bob Braden (Braden@ISI.EDU)




Westine                                                         [Page 3]

Internet Monthly Report                                       April 1991


INTERNET ENGINEERING REPORTS
----------------------------

     1) New Working Groups for Apr 01, 1991 to Apr 30, 1991

         Internet Message Extentions (822ext)
         Network News Transport Protocol (nntp)

     2) Internet Draft Activity for Apr 01, 1991 to Apr 30, 1991

      (Revised draft (o), New Draft (+) )

        WG         I-D Title
      ------       -----------------------------------------------------
      (snmp)     o Extensions to the Generic-Interface MIB
                     <draft-ietf-snmp-interfacemibext-02.txt>
      (snmp)     o Definitions of Managed Objects for the Ethernet-
                   like Interface Types
                     <draft-ietf-snmp-ethernetmib-05.txt>
      (snmp)     o Definitions of Managed Objects for the SIP Interface
                   Type
                     <draft-ietf-snmp-smdsipmib-01.txt>
      (null)     o An Approach to CO/CL Interworking-- Part II: The
                   Short-Term -- Conventions for Transport-Service
                   Bridges in the Absence of Internetworking
                     <draft-ccirn-cocl-doc2-01.txt>
      (no wg)    o Tunneling IPX Traffic through IP Networks
                     <draft-provan-ipxtunneling-01.txt>
      (ospf)     o OSPF Version 2 Management Information Base
                     <draft-ietf-ospf-ospfmib-03.txt>
      (osinsap)  o Guidelines for OSI NSAP Allocation in the Internet
                     <draft-ietf-osinsap-internetalloc-01.txt, .ps>
      (snmpsec)  + SNMP Administrative Model
                     <draft-ietf-snmpsec-admin-00.txt, .ps>
      (snmpsec)  + SNMP Security Protocols
                     <draft-ietf-snmpsec-protocols-00.txt, .ps>
      (snmpsec)  + Definitions of Managed Objects for Administration
                   of SNMP Parties
                     <draft-ietf-snmpsec-mib-00.txt>
      (test)     + dfsgdsfgsdfgsdfg
                     <-  >
      (bgp)      + Border Gateway Protocol NEXT-HOP-SNPA Attribute
                     <draft-ietf-bgp-nexthop-00.txt>
      (none)     + The IP Network Address Translator (Nat):
                   Preliminary Design
                     <draft-tsuchiya-addrtrans-00.txt, .ps>
      (snmp)     + SNMP Communications Services
                     <draft-ietf-snmp-commservices-00.txt>



Westine                                                         [Page 4]

Internet Monthly Report                                       April 1991


      (null)     o An Approach to CO/CL Interworking  -- Part III:
                   The Long-Term -- Conventions for Network-Layer
                   Relays and Transport-Service Bridges in the
                   presence of Internetworking
                     <draft-ccirn-cocl-doc4-01.txt>

     15 Drafts produced,  8 new this period

     3) RFC's Produced  for Apr 01, 1991 to Apr 30, 1991

       RFC        Group           Title
      ------- -- --------   --------------------------------------------
      RFC1214    (oim)       OSI Internet Management: Management
                             Information Base
      RFC1220 ps (pppext)    Point-to-Point Protocol Extensions for
                             Bridging

     Standards( 1),  Experimental(  ), Informational( 1)

     Phill Gross (pgross@NRI.RESTON.VA.US)































Westine                                                         [Page 5]

Internet Monthly Report                                       April 1991


INTERNET PROJECTS
-----------------

BARRNET
-------

     One new T1 connection, three 56kbps connections, and one dial-in
     connection were completed in April, bringing the number of
     connected members to 84. One of the 56kbps connections is the first
     trial of a bridged Ethernet to be installed by BARRNet.

     The T3 ENSS is now fully operational; all traffic routed to NSFNet
     sites that are also connected by T3 at the other end is now
     traversing the T3 backbone.

     by Paul Baer <baer@jessica.stanford.edu>

BOLT BERANEK AND NEWMAN INC.
----------------------------

     Terrestrial Wideband Network (TWBNet) and ST/IP Gateway

     During April, conferencing facilities were installed at RADC.
     There are now seven conferencing sites -- UCL, BBN, RIACS, ISI,
     DARPA, Germany, and RADC.  These sites participated in a total of
     ten video conferences and demonstrations.  Of these, four included
     four sites, three included three, and the remaining three were
     point to point.  Two of the four way conferences included UCL, and
     the multipoint connection was handled by the hublet.  Conferences
     were held for discussions in the following areas: the Internet
     Activites Board, the IETF Coip WG, the Directory WG, an ad-hoc WG
     on Connection-oriented Connection-less Internetworking, Inter-
     Domain Policy Routing Development Group, Dartnet experimenters, and
     the UK Fat-pipe Operational Management Group.  The TWBNet was also
     used to support three Simnet exercises -- two included three sites
     and lasted 3 days, one involved two sites and lasted one day.

     Inter-Domain Policy Routing

     During the month of April, we focused on three different topics:
     enhancing the IDPR prototype implementation, preparing a usage and
     configuration document for users of IDPR, and preparing a draft of
     our proposed mechanisms for policy-based resource allocation.

     In early April, we held a videoconference with the IDPR software
     developers from BBN, USC, and SAIC to discuss the results of our
     various experiments with the prototype implementation.  In
     particular, we discussed performance measurements (both the amount



Westine                                                         [Page 6]

Internet Monthly Report                                       April 1991


     of processing time required for path setup and the amount of
     processing time required to forward data traffic) conducted by USC
     and SAIC, features of the architecture to be added to the
     implementation, and minor problems discovered.  For more detail on
     all of these, please write to idpr@bbn.com.  The minor bugs
     discovered we fix immediately, but we are also eager to add more
     functionality to the prototype.  Unfortunately, there is not enough
     of the developers' time to accomplish things as quickly as we wish;
     all of the current developers are overcommitted.

     To simplify the process of adding IDPR capabilities to routers in
     one's administrative domain, we are preparing an Internet Draft
     describing how to configure transit policies, as well as other IDPR
     parameters.  In the document, we will provide a configuration
     template as well as sample configurations for example domains.  We
     hope to have a draft available for review by early June.

     We are also preparing a document on the routing, flow control, and
     resource reservation mechanisms we intend to bundle together to
     implement policy-based resource allocation.  We hope to have a
     draft available by early June.  Resources permitting, we may also
     be able to implement some subset of these mechanisms in a prototype
     later in the summer.

     Internet O&M / ICBNet Infrastructure

     During the month of April, we closely monitored the status of the
     US/UK "fat pipe" to see if the new software in the Butterfly
     gateways at ULCC and SURA had alleviated the routing problems which
     had appeared in December of last year. For the first half of the
     month, BBN worked closely with NRI, with each location running
     independent tests and exchanging daily reports.  The main
     conclusion at the end of this period was that overall fat pipe
     performance had returned to an acceptable level.  (Availability
     data accumulated by BBN between mid-March and mid-April showed the
     connection to be up approximately 96% of the time.) Reports from
     NRI also showed that there were 2 minute outages occuring at
     irregular intervals which we have traced to fragmentation
     reassembly timeouts in the Butterfly software. This is a new
     problem which has appeared since the total number of nets being
     advertised from the NSFNet and the DCA Mailbridges have exceeded
     2000 nets and the new software now carries all of these routes.  We
     have not yet found the exact cause of this problem.

     We began preliminary testing for the upcoming conversion to the
     newer BBN T/20 router at ULCC, SURA and other ICBNET locations. As
     part of this testing, we have replaced the BBN-WB gateway with a
     T/20 router.



Westine                                                         [Page 7]

Internet Monthly Report                                       April 1991


     The Operations Management Group of the Fat Pipe met formally for
     the first time by video conference. Participants included ICB
     members at UCL and representatives from NASA, BBN, NRI at the AMES,
     BBN and DARPA sites respectively.

     Jeanne Pinette <jpinette@BBN.COM>

CALSTATE
--------

     The California State University Network (CSUnet)

     Progress this month:

     - Most CSUnet Backbone Ring nodes now running at T-1

     Most of the T-1 circuits on the CSUnet T-1 Backbone Ring have been
     installed and are operational.  Only one circuit (San Francisco to
     San Luis Obispo) is pending due to phone company delays.

     The CSUnet T-1 Backbone Ring links the twenty California State
     University campuses across the entire State of California.  The
     Backbone nodes now upgraded and interconnected are:

     (1) California State University, Sacramento TO
     (2) San Francisco State University TO
     (3) California Polytechnic State University, San Luis Obispo TO
     (4) CSUnet Network Operations Center (SWRL) in Los Alamitos TO
     (5) San Diego State University TO
     (6) California State University, Fullerton TO
     (7) California State University, Fresno TO
     (1) California State University, Sacramento

     Also, a T-1 donated by the California Department of Water Resources
     interconnects (1) CSU Sacamento to the (4) SWRL CSUnet Network
     Operations Center.

     A postscript map of the T-1 topology can be obtained by anonymous
     ftp to nic.CSU.net.  The file "CSUnet_T1.ps" should be transferred
     in binary mode to obtain the correct formatting.

     Late news in: [May 3, 1991] T-1 MUX purchase order issued, install
     on June 3

     After almost a year of effort, the procurement of T-1 multiplexor
     equipment for CSUNET is in its final phase.  A purchase order was
     issued today to Digital Equipment Corporation for 21 Stratacom T-1
     multiplexors, one for each of the twenty California State



Westine                                                         [Page 8]

Internet Monthly Report                                       April 1991


     University campuses.  Unlike conventional circuit-switched
     multiplexors, these employ advanced "frame relay" and "fast packet"
     technology.

     The Phase I sites to be delivered June 3 are:
         - CSUnet Network Operations Center in Los Alamitos, California
         - California State University, Fullerton
         - San Diego State University

     Phase II installs are scheduled for the early part of July at:
         - San Francisco State University
         - California State University, Sacramento
         - California State University, Fresno
         - California Polytechnic State University, San Luis Obispo

     The remaining fourteen sites will be installed at a rate of one per
     week beginning in August.  [The campus installation order was
     determined by the systemwide CSUnet Network Task Force last Fall].

     Mike Marcinkevicz (mdm@CSU.net)

CORNELL
-------

     Wide-Area Multicasting

        The main area of investigation now is how different routing
        protocols will interact in the real world, and how multicast
        packets should be delivered at the interfaces between of
        autonomous systems, given typical administrative goals and
        restrictions on routing protocol behavior, the possibility of
        multiple logical networks on one physical network, and so on.
        The draft RFC for OSPF extensions is having the details added;
        completion of the BGP extensions document is waiting until we
        have thought through the possible problems at administrative
        boundaries mentioned above.

     Gatedaemon

        Jeff Honig attended a meeting at Merit to discuss integration of
        OSI routing protocols into gated and its use on the NSFNet
        backbone.  Volunteers stepped forward to integrate the BSD 4.3
        Reno reduced radix tree routing table code and Wisconsin's
        Integrated Stack IS-IS into the latest gated development code.
        Merit is implementing IDRP.  Yet another volunteer is working on
        a SMUX interface to the ISODE snmp daemon.





Westine                                                         [Page 9]

Internet Monthly Report                                       April 1991


        Integration of the University of Maryland's OSPF into gated is
        progressing nicely.  We hope to be able to participate in the
        next round of OSPF interoperability testing in June.

     International Connections

        The new connection to INRIA became operational on 4-25-91 and
        the new connection to NORDUNET became operational on 5-2-91.
        The old connections through JVNCNET will remain as backup for
        thirty days.

     Scott Brim (swb@chumley.tn.cornell.edu)

ISI
---

     GIGABIT NETWORKING

     Greg Finn is writing a paper that discusses utilizing a certain
     class of emerging Gigabit LANs to be used internally in an
     architecture as well as externally as they are today.

     ATOMIC

     Greg Finn has been working on issues concerning the ATOMIC network.

     INFRASTRUCTURE

     Joyce Reynolds travelled to the DDN NIC April 9 & 10th.  Joyce
     travelled to UCDAVIS to participate as a volunteer "master helper"
     at their "Mining the Internet" event, April 11 & 12.  Joyce
     travelled to Washington, D.C., April 22-24, as an invited
     participant of the EDUCOM/NSF Workshop on Information Services.

     14 RFCs were published.

        RFC 1208:  Jacobsen, O., and D. Lynch, "A Glossary of
                   Networking Terms", Interop, Inc., March 1991.

        RFC 1209:  Piscitello, D., and J. Lawrence, "The Transmission
                   of IP Datagrams over the SMDS Service", Bell
                   Communications Research, March 1991.

        RFC 1210:  Cerf, V. (CNRI), P. Kirstein (UCL), and B. Randell
                   Newcastle on Tyne), "Network and Infrastructure
                   User Requirements for Transatlantic Research
                   Collaboration Brussels, July 16-18, and Washington
                   July 24-25, 1990", March 1991.



Westine                                                        [Page 10]

Internet Monthly Report                                       April 1991


        RFC 1211:  Westine, A., and J. Postel, "Problems with the
                   Maintenance of Large Mailing Lists, USC/Information
                   Sciences Institute, March 1991.

        RFC 1212:  Rose, M., (PSI), and K. McCloghrie (Hughes Lan
                   Systems), "Concise MIB Definitions", March 1991.

        RFC 1213:  McCloghrie, K., (Hughes Lan Systems), and Rose, M.,
                   (PSI), "Management Information Base for Network
                   Management of TCP/IP-based internets: MIB-II",
                   March 1991.

        RFC 1214:  LaBarre, L., "OSI Internet Management: Management
                   Information Base", Mitre, April 1991.

        RFC 1215:  Rose, M., "A Convention for Defining Traps for
                   use with the SNMP, Performance Systems
                   International, March 1991.

        RFC 1216:  Richard, P., (Almanac Institute) and Prof. Kynikos,
                   Miskatonic University, "Gigabit Network Economics
                   and Paradigm Shifts", April 1991.

        RFC 1217:  Cerf, V., "Memo from the Consortium for Slow
                   Commotion Research (CSCR)", CSCR, April 1991.

        RFC 1218:  The North American Directory Forum, "A Naming Scheme
                   for c=US", April 1991.

        RFC 1219:  Tsuchiya, P., "On the Assignment of Subnet Numbers",
                   Bellcore, April 1991.

        RFC 1220:  Baker, F., Editor, "Point-to-Point Protocol
                   Extensions for Bridging", ACC, April 1991.

        RFC 1221:  Edmond, W., "Host Access Protocol (HAP)
                   Specification - Version 2", BBN, April 1991.

     Ann Westine (Westine@ISI.EDU)

     MULTIMEDIA CONFERENCING

     Several experiments were conducted this month with the SPARCstation
     version of the Voice Terminal (VT) program, the packet audio
     component of our teleconferencing system.  The ST-I version of VT
     was modified to make use of IP-multicast on the IP-encapsulated ST
     packets.  This was used during an audio teleconference which
     connected six DARTnet sites including BBN, ISI, LBL, SRI,



Westine                                                        [Page 11]

Internet Monthly Report                                       April 1991


     University of Delaware, and Xerox PARC.  Meanwhile, we have built a
     SunOS kernel combining BBN's socket-interfaced kernel ST-II (RFC
     1190) implementation with the DARTnet router kernel modules
     provided by Van Jacobson, and we have made a new version of VT
     using that ST-II socket interface.  Both the kernel and VT are in
     testing.

     Redesign of the conference connection management architecture has
     also begun.  The intent is to extend our distributed model to
     accommodate more flexibility in modes of operation for office-to-
     office conferencing that are not feasible in the current meeting-
     room-style system.  Important characteristics include support for
     heterogeneous site configurations, robustness in the face of
     network flakiness, and multiple user interfaces.

     Steve Casner made a presentation on "Multimedia Collaboration" at
     the National Software Exchange workshop at NASA/Ames.

     Eve Schooler, Steve Casner, Annette DeSchon (schooler@ISI.EDU,
     casner@ISI.EDU, deschon@ISI.EDU)

JVNCNET, NORTHEAST RESEARCH REGIONAL NETWORK
--------------------------------------------

     JvNCnet
     Princeton University
     B6 von Neumann Hall
     Princeton, NJ  08544

     Director:  Sergio Heker

     Compiled by Rochelle Hammer

     JvNCnet Contact information:

     Information     "nisc@jvnc.net"      609-258-2405   9:00-5:00 M-F
     Operations      "noc@jvnc.net"       609-258-1544
     24hours/ 7days
     General number:  609-258-2400

     Network availability as of April 25 is 99.86%.

     An automated RFC responder mechanism is being completed and will be
     announced next month.  This mechanism will allow users with
     Internet connectivity to retrieve RFCs from "nisc.jvnc.net" by
     sending an electronic mail message with a specified format.
     NISC.JVNC.NET is an official repository for RFCs.




Westine                                                        [Page 12]

Internet Monthly Report                                       April 1991


     The National University of Singapore was connected to the JvNCnet
     by a 64kbps IP link.  The connection became operational on time
     time thanks to the cooperation of the Singapore staff, the
     telephone company, and JvNCnet staff.  This connection becomes part
     of the "international system" supported by JvNCnet.  This system
     consists of a T1 line from the JvNCnet headquarters in Princeton to
     the telephone company international gateway.  The T1 is channelized
     to accommodate a number of international circuits.  The channel
     bank located at the JvNCnet headquarters allows for multiple 64kbps
     (or 56kbps) channels for each card and currently supports one
     112kbps channel to CA*NET, 64kbps to NORDUnet and 64kbps to
     Singapore. From the channel bank, the connections go to different
     gateways (the NSFNET node for the CA*NET connection and cisco
     routers for the others).  Currently the Singapore connection to the
     United States is being advertised to only JvNCnet member networks
     until it is configured in the NSFNET policy database.

     Introduction to Data Networking and TCP/IP is scheduled to take
     place on Friday, May 17, 1991 at Princeton University.  Pre-
     registration is preferrable and most convenient by sending
     electronic mail to Allison Pihl at pihl@jvnc.net or by calling
     609-258-2406. Upon receipt of your registration, an informational
     package with agenda, directions and campus map will be mailed.
     Please call Ms. Pihl with any questions or comments.

     Attendees: The seminar is appropriate for network operations and
     technical staff of local area networks.  This course is designed as
     an entry level introduction to TCP/IP networking and how the
     operations of a network are performed.

     Registration fee:  $50 for staff of JvNCnet member institutions.
                        $150 for all others interested.

     The fee includes introductory reference materials (seminar
     documentation), lunch, and refreshments.

     JvNCnet SEMINAR
     Introduction to Data Networking and TCP/IP
     Friday, May 17, 1991
     Computer Science Building, Princeton University
     (CS BOWL 104)

             TENTATIVE AGENDA

     9:30    Continental Breakfast
     10:00   Welcome
     10:15   What is a network?
             What makes a network?



Westine                                                        [Page 13]

Internet Monthly Report                                       April 1991


     11:15   Break
     11:30   An Introduction to TCP/IP
     12:30   Lunch
     1:45    How do these four functions affect networking?
                     Operations
                     Installation and Maintenance
                     Information Services
                     Engineering
     3:00    Break
     3:15    Questions and Answers
     5:00    Adjourn

LOS NETTOS
----------

     The TRW network interconnection site was successfully moved to
     their new location.  As per the norm both Pacific Bell and GTE have
     made errors in their phone bills concerning start and stop dates
     for the new and old circuits.

     Unisys in Camarillo has terminated their network connection to Los
     Nettos.

     Walt Prue (Prue@ISI.EDU)

MITRE Corporation
-----------------

     On the OSI front, John McGuthry and Walt completed the introduction
     of CLNP routing  into the  I.E. Testbed and retested with Europe.
     They then introduced CLNP routing into some of the MITRE production
     routers.  We now have CLNP routing, FTAM, and X.400 communication
     between the Bedford, Washington, and Colorado Springs sites.

     Walt Lazear articipated in DCA's PSTP working group on Network
     Management held at BDM 9 April.  He briefed the group on IETF net
     management activities.

     Shari Galitzer, Kit Leuder, and Forrest Palmer attended the IFIPS
     Symposium on Integrated Network Management.

     Last month's report neglected to acknowledge that Allison Mankin
     and Rick Wilder attended the IETF, where their congestion avoidance
     work was presented.  Sorry for the omission.

     Walt Lazear (lazear@gateway.mitre.org)





Westine                                                        [Page 14]

Internet Monthly Report                                       April 1991


NNSC, UCAR/BOLT BERANEK and NEWMAN, INC.
----------------------------------------

     The NNSC Tour of the Internet is now also available via the NSFNET
     portion of the CSNET Info-Server.  To retrieve the Tour, send a
     message, to: info-server@nnsc.nsf.net, in the body of the message,
     type the following:

     request: nsfnet
     topic: internet-tour
     request: end

     The topic "internet-tour" is a list of two topics:

     internet-tour-readme
     internet-tour.sit.hqx

     in directory /nfs/nnsc/nnsc/ftp/internet-tour

     (The binhex file for the Internet Tour comes in 17 fragments.)

     The NNSC also distributed additions to Chapters 2 and 3 of the
     Internet Resource Guide.  Karen Roubicek attended the NSF Workshop
     on Information Services.

     Corinne Carroll <ccarroll@nnsc.nsf.net>

NSFNET BACKBONE (Merit Network. Inc.)
-------------------------------------

     The April 1991 inbound packet count for the NSFNET T1
     infrastructure totaled 7,544,331,873 packets, an increase of 7.37%
     over the March inbound packet total of 7,026,153,681.  Networks
     announced via the NSFNET numbered 2622 at the end of April; foreign
     networks represent 793 of the 2622 network total.

     Approximately 400 configured networks now route traffic between
     each other on the T3 infrastructure.  Traffic through nodes at Ann
     Arbor, Pittsburgh, Ithaca, Boston, San Diego, Palo Alto and
     Champaign totaled 409,349,186 inpackets, with production traffic
     continuing to be phased from T1 to T3.

     Connectivity for NEARNET to the NSFNET was established via the T3
     node at Boston.  Routing backup to the NSFNET is provided to
     NEARNET with the cooperation of JvNCnet through NSS 8 at Princeton.
     The Ann Arbor T1-T3 interconnect was deployed to a private
     Ethernet, enabling traffic to be monitored between the two networks
     independently of any other traffic.



Westine                                                        [Page 15]

Internet Monthly Report                                       April 1991


     Sue Hares and Dave Katz of Merit/NSFNET Internet Engineering met
     with Jeff Honig (Cornell), Yakov Rekhter (IBM Yorktown), Rob Hagens
     (Wisconsin), Steve Heimlich (IBM Yorktown), and Rich Woundy (IBM
     Milford) in Ann Arbor to discuss the implementation of OSI in the
     T3 infrastructure.  Of particular interest is building a publicly
     available implementation of OSI routing protocols, including IDRP
     and dual stack IS-IS in gated.  The proposed means of connecting
     OSI domains has wide technical acceptance, and is on the OSI
     standards track.  On April 10th, two United States regionals
     exchanged pure OSI stack traffic using commercially available
     products over NSFNET.  The end systems were Sun workstations
     running the SunNet OSI code (version 7.0) at Merit and MITRE; the
     stacked protocol was full OSI using CLNP at the network layer and
     FTAM at the application layer.

     Guests at the Merit Network Operations Center included Tony Bates,
     of the University of London Computing Center.  Bates' discussed
     network operations and United Kingdom network routing to the
     NSFNET.

     Eric Aupperle, President of Merit Network, Inc., attended the
     FARNET meeting in Austin, TX.  Dave Katz attended a meeting of the
     OSI Network and Transport Layer Technical Working Group in Raleigh,
     NC, and presented a paper on FDDI to Electronic Imaging West in
     Anaheim, CA.  Elise Gerich, also of Merit/NSFNET Internet
     Engineering, was its representative to the FEPG meeting in
     Livermore, CA.

     Glee Cady, manager of Merit/NSFNET Information Services attended
     the 1991 Faxon Institute in Reston, VA, "Creating User Pathways to
     Electronic Information."  Pat Smith, of Merit/NSFNET Information
     Services, participates on the SIGUCCS Networking Task Force, a
     group interested in reaching the thousands of potential users who
     are not aware of the benefits offered by a national network.  NETTF
     convened at the spring SIGUCCS Computer Center Management Symposium
     in St. Louis, MO.  Susan Calcari, also of Information Services,
     conducted the workshop, "Enhancing Education with NSFNET," and gave
     the NSFNET overview at the plenary session of the California
     Educational Computing Consortium Workshops held in Davis, CA.

     Jo Ann Ward (jward@merit.edu)










Westine                                                        [Page 16]

Internet Monthly Report                                       April 1991


NDRE and NTA-RD
---------------

     There is nothing to report from NDRE or NTA-RD this month.

     Anton Leere (leere@ndre.no)
PREPNET
-------

     No progress to report this month.

     PREPnet NIC (prepnet+@andrew.cmu.edu)

SRI
----

     Internet registry activities in April included the assignment of
     xxx IP network numbers.  The cumulative total of all assigned IP
     numbers is now 30,917.  There are now a total of 1,261 assigned
     Autonomous System numbers (ASNs) assigned.

     There are currently a total of 2,741 domains registered with the
     NIC, including 61 at the top level, 2,624 at the second level, and
     56 third-level MIL domains.

                        Cumulative IP Network Statistics

     Month/Year                       Class

                             A       B       C           Total

     Apr. 1991               43      4,977   25,897      30,917

     Mar. 1991               41      4,520   24,572      29,133

     Feb. 1991               39      4,347   22,552      26,938

     Jan. 1991               39      4,246   21,731      26,016

     Dec. 1990               36      4,305   21,811      26,152

     Nov. 1990               35      4,198   21,149      25,382

     Mary Stahl (stahl@nisc.sri.com)







Westine                                                        [Page 17]

Internet Monthly Report                                       April 1991


UCL
----

     There were several video conferences from UCL in April. The main
     two were the IETF Directory Group meeting, which was 4 way plus
     voice, and the IETF CO-CL working group which was 3 way with voice
     to France.

     Crowcroft attended Infocomm in Miami, and TriComm at UNC in North
     Carolina and gave papers on Floor Control for Conferencing, and on
     the UCL CAR/DARPA/LIVENet video conferencing activities.

     A number of experiments with constant rate IP traffic on JANET have
     been conducted to see if the current pilot IP service is suitable
     for carrying video traffic.

     John Crowcroft (j.crowcroft@CS.UCL.AC.UK)

UNIVERSITY OF DELAWARE
----------------------


     1.   The Cornell fuzzball time server finally expired from a disk
          stroke after five years of faithful tick. While its embers may
          yet find light elsewhere, it has been replaced by a Unix
          machine at the same stratum and address.

     2.   Erik Perkins and Dave Mills participated in a DARTnet audio
          teleconference, while Dave Mills attended an End-to-end
          Research Group meeting at AT&T Murray Hill.

          Dave Mills (Mills@UDEL.EDU)

WISCNET
-------

     Training sessions for user consulting staff were held at UW-Madison
     and at UW-Eau Claire.  Presentations included a national network
     overview, the domain system, network mail and gateways, use of
     tools (nslookup, whois, etc.), news, security issues, and
     demonstrations of various network commands.

     The WiscNet Board met this month and approved replacement of the T1
     lines connecting UW-Madison to the State's data network with a
     fiber link.  This link will also carry XUNet to the UW-Madison
     Computer Science Department and some other bulk analog services.





Westine                                                        [Page 18]

Internet Monthly Report                                       April 1991


     The Board also approved our membership agreement.  We expect to
     approach about six additional colleges or vocational and technical
     schools who have expressed interest in WiscNet membership in the
     near future.

     Michael Dorl (dorl@macc.wisc.edu)













































Westine                                                        [Page 19]

Internet Monthly Report                                       April 1991


DIRECTORY SERVICES
------------------

This section of the Internet Monthly is devoted to efforts working to
develop directory services that are for, or effect, the Internet.  We
would like to encourage any organization with news about directory
service activities to use this forum for publishing brief monthly news
items.  Current reports include:

        o IETF OSIDS & DISI Working Groups
        o Field Operational X.500 Project
           - ISI
           - Merit
           - PSI
           - SRI
        o National Institute of Standards and Technology
        o North American Directory Forum
        o OSI Implementor's Workshop
        o PARADISE Project
        o PSI WHITE PAGES PILOT
        o Registration Authority Committee (ANSI USA RAC)
        o U.S. Department of State, Study Group D,
            MHS Management Domain subcommittee (SG-D MHS-MD)

Steve Hotz (hotz@isi.edu)
DS Report Coordinator

IETF OSIDS & DISI WORKING GROUPS
--------------------------------

     Refer to IETF section (above) for the OSIDS and DISI working group
     reports.

FOX -- FIELD OPERATIONAL X.500 PROJECT
--------------------------------------

     The FOX project is a DARPA and NSF funded effort to provide a basis
     for operational X.500 deployment in the NREN/Internet.  This work
     is being carried out at Merit, NSYERNet/PSI, SRI and ISI.  ISI is
     the main contractor and responsible for project oversight.

     Steve Hotz (hotz@ISI.EDU)









Westine                                                        [Page 20]

Internet Monthly Report                                       April 1991


     ISI
     ---

        ISI organized the April 17 FOX phone conference, which included
        participants from all of the FOX contractors and several
        government agency representatives.  The primary topics of this
        meeting were: (1) a discussion of the FOX project and how it
        relates to various other X.500 efforts, (2) status of and
        questions about the ongoing activities at each site, and (3)
        potential research issues that FOX may need to resolve to
        facilitate Internet X.500 deployment.  Hotz produced minutes for
        this meeting, which were distributed to the participants.

        The March 1991 Directory Services Activities Report was edited
        and submitted to be included in the PARADISE International X.500
        report.

        Bob Braden and Steve Hotz attended the April 11 IETF OSI-DS
        videoconference.  Hotz supplied ISI site notes for inclusion in
        the meeting's minutes.

        Steve Hotz (hotz@ISI.EDU)

     MERIT
     -----

        Merit FOX members participated in a meeting at NSF on Network
        Information Services, to help determine requirements for the new
        "NIC".  Emphasis was placed on Directory Services as an
        important requirement to be provided, and on the incorporation
        of X.500 in particular.

        Work and discussions on the interim network infrastructure
        information schema and DIT drafts continued.

        Merit began the initial design and discussion of a scheme for
        representing Internet resources in X.500.

        Chris Weider (clw@merit.edu)
        Mark Knopper (mak@merit.edu)











Westine                                                        [Page 21]

Internet Monthly Report                                       April 1991


     PSI
     ---

        A tool to translate from RFC-INDEX.TXT to QUIPU's EDB format was
        developed; the Directory has been updated accordingly.  These
        entries are contained in the Directory under:

               @o=Internet@cn=RFC Documents

        A document relating NADF-123 and X.500 in the Internet was
        circulated to the FOX partners.

        Marshall Rose (mrose@cheetah.ca.psi.com)

     SRI
     ----

        The White Pages Pilot (WPP) Project DSA offering access to SRI
        staff information, San Joaquin Kit Fox, was upgraded to ISODE
        6.8.

        SRI continued work on providing access to WHOIS information via
        the Directory.  A prototype DSA offering access to Individual,
        Computer, Network, Domain, Autonomous System, Organization, and
        Group information is running locally at SRI.  Schema additions,
        both new objects and attributes, were made to support the WHOIS
        information.  The prototype employs the new schema but does not
        yet contain distinguished name references (e.g., between
        individual and computer that they coordinate); these will be
        added in early May.  Also in May, SRI will contact the WPP
        Manager to have this DSA added to the Pilot DMD, and apply to
        have the WHOIS-supporting objects and attributes added to the
        Cosine and Internet X.500 Schema.

        An early analysis of WHOIS data mapping to the Directory
        revealed that a significant number of entries fail postalAddress
        length restrictions (6 address lines, each no greater than 30
        characters).  47% of the addresses listed for Individuals failed
        the length restrictions; a majority of the failures were due to
        the 30 character per address line limit.  SRI will pursue a
        means to provide feedback to the standards community on this
        issue.

        As part of the Directory Information Services (pilot)
        Infrastructure Working Group (DISI), an RFC/FYI document
        cataloging X.500 implementations will be created.  Ruth Lang,
        along with Russ Wright of LBL, wrote and distributed an X.500
        implementation survey form to relevant Internet mailing lists.



Westine                                                        [Page 22]

Internet Monthly Report                                       April 1991


        Although the date for receipt of survey forms was 5/3/91, late
        survey input will be accepted.  Contact rlang@nisc.sri.com or
        wright@lbl.gov to receive a survey form.  The DISI working group
        will review and edit input during the month of May.  It is
        anticipated that this document will be distributed as a draft
        RFC/FYI in June.

        Ruth Lang attended the OSI-DS videoconference meeting held on
        April 11, and was the designated scribe for the RIACS site.
        Jose Garcia-Luna, Ken Harrenstien, and Ruth Lang participated in
        a FOX project phone conference meeting held on April 17.

        Ruth Lang (rlang@NISC.SRI.COM)

NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF STANDARDS AND TECHNOLOGY
----------------------------------------------

     NIST is involved in several X.500 activities: standards, pilot
     deployment, and development of an X.500 implementation, Custos.
     The objective is to see X.500 widely deployed and used in the US
     government.  X.500 is expected to be in the next release of the US
     Government OSI Profile (GOSIP).  In the standards efforts, emphasis
     is on access control and replication; the other activities are
     described in some detail below.

     (A) NIST/GSA X.500 Pilot Deployment

     NIST and GSA are collaborating in the creation of a U.S. government
     X.500 pilot deployment.  To date, two meetings have been held.  At
     the second, held on April 25th at NIST, significant progress was
     made towards refining an initial draft schema developed by NIST.  A
     number of government agency requirements will be included in the
     next schema revision.  Once the schema is defined, agencies will
     begin collecting data for loading into the directory.  Initially,
     NIST will offer to host agency data on Custos DSAs running at NIST.
     Eventually, agencies are expected to obtain and operate DSAs.

     The next meeting of the NIST/GSA pilot project is scheduled for
     June 18, 1991.  Operational deployment is expected to begin in
     October 1991.

     (B) Custos Update

     The NIST X.500 public-domain implementation, Custos, is implemented
     on ISODE, although it otherwise bears no relation to QUIPU.  One of
     its more interesting features is that the DBMS interface is SQL,
     and we provide a simple DBMS as part of Custos to support the DSA.
     Information can be optionally loaded into memory, and the memory



Westine                                                        [Page 23]

Internet Monthly Report                                       April 1991


     usage is reasonably efficient on a per-entry basis.

     NIST has implemented, tested, and made a limited release of Custos,
     referred to as Release 0.1.  It implements the read, add, compare,
     and list operations, along with a significant amount of
     "infrastructure" code that applies to all operations.

     The organizations that have received Release 0.1 are: SRI and
     Merit, which plan to incorporate Custos into the FOX effort; York
     University in Toronto, which plans to instrument it with OSI
     network management; and COS, which intends to use Custos to
     evaluate X.500 test systems.  The conditions for getting 0.1 are
     that the organization make some contribution to improving the
     implementation, and only minimal support from NIST is provided
     until Release 0.2 is available.

     An interim release of 0.1 will be made available by May 15 which
     incorporates additional efficiencies in the DBMS, and modifications
     for DAP interoperability with OSIWARE and QUIPU.

     Search, access control, and schema management are currently under
     development.  This is the additional functionality for Release 0.2,
     which is due out in October.  The extent of the distribution for
     this release has not yet been determined.

     Richard Colella (colella@osi.ncsl.nist.gov)

NORTH AMERICAN DIRECTORY FORUM
-------------------------------

     NADF-123 was published as an informational RFC (RFC-1218).

     Marshall Rose (mrose@CHEETAH.CA.PSI.COM)

OSI IMPLEMENTOR'S WORKSHOP (OIW)
--------------------------------

     The OSI Implementor's Workshop (OIW) is an open public forum for
     technical issues, concerned with the timely development of
     implementation agreements based on emerging international OSI
     standards.  The Workshop accepts as input the specifications of
     emerging standards for protocols, and produces as output agreements
     on the implementation and testing particulars of these protocols.
     This process is expected to expedite the development of OSI
     protocols and to promote interoperability of independently
     manufactured data communications equipment.





Westine                                                        [Page 24]

Internet Monthly Report                                       April 1991


     The Workshop organizes its work through Special Interest Groups
     (SIGs) that prepare technical documentation.  The SIGs are
     encouraged to coordinate with standards organizations and user
     groups, and to seek widespread technical consensus on
     implementation agreements through international discussions and
     liaison activities.

     The Directory SIG of the Workshop produces agreements on the
     implementation of Directory protocols based on ISO 9594 | CCITT
     X.500 Recommendations.  There are three major areas that the SIG is
     working on for 1991: access control, replication, and distributed
     operations.  Three subgroups have been formed, each focusing on one
     of these areas.  The SIG plans to achieve agreements in these areas
     based on the Draft International Standards and the Draft Amendments
     by the end of 1991.

     At their last meeting (March, 1991), the subgroups detailed
     workplans and produced outlines of the agreements.  At their next
     meeting (scheduled for June 10-14, 1991), the groups expect to
     start to produce actual agreements based on the output of the April
     1991 ISO/CCITT Directory Editor's meeting.

     Youbong Weon-Yoon (youbong@arch2.att.com)

PARADISE
--------

     The first PARADISE report (found in the March 1991 Internet
     Monthly) was a summary of what the project was about and who was
     involved.  This report is a summary of what's been happening over
     the last three months.  Subsequent reports will contain only
     monthly status updates.

     (A) Central DSA

     The SUN 4/330 was configured with ISODE-6.7m and was running a test
     DSA from 30 January.  Extensive connectivity tests of IPSS, IXI,
     Janet and Internet were made with no significant problems.  On
     February 18, the DSA became "Giant Tortoise" and thus held the
     master copy of the root of the pilot DIT (Directory Information
     Tree).  The DSA has been running since then without major problems.
     It is now accepting an average of 3000 associations per week, with
     approximately 10,000 operations per week.  Most of these are caused
     by either the replication protocol or by the relay service giving
     IXI access to the US via the Internet.  The SUN is connected to the
     Internet via the "Fat-Pipe" and is now running SUNOS 4.0.3 and has
     been upgraded to ISODE 6.8.  System back-up procedures are now in
     place, and automatic back-ups to tape are done nightly.  There have



Westine                                                        [Page 25]

Internet Monthly Report                                       April 1991


     been some complaints about the fat-pipe connection to the US; since
     a recent software upgrade there have been very few outages.  There
     is now a backup via Germany which will kick in if necessary.

     (B) Central DUA

     Work on the interface for the central DUA service is progressing
     steadily and should be ready on schedule in June.  This service
     will run on the SUN 4/470 purchased by the project.  The interface
     is currently able to resolve most queries given to it, although
     more work is still needed.  Additional work is also needed on
     formatting the output of results to the user.  A test version of
     the interface will be made available via the central server to the
     PUNTERS for comments and appraisal in the near future.  It is hoped
     that this interface will come on-line in June, with the possibility
     of other simple interfaces available on the central server.

     (C) Central Support

     A staff appointment has been made for the PARADISE HelpDesk based
     at ULCC.  Phone and email contact have been available since April
     29th.

          Telephone:          +44 71 405 8400 x432
          Telefax:            +44 71 242 1845
          Email:              helpdesk@paradise.ulcc.ac.uk


     There will also be an info-server which it is hoped will contain a
     variety of PARADISE documents, including a number of "living"
     documents:

          o    a list of reference implementation sites
          o    a product file of DSAs
          o    a product file of DUAs
          o    the PARADISE International Report
          o    a calendar of meetings and events relevant to
               PARADISE and the Internet

     (D) PUNTERS

     The national pilots involved in the project are known as the
     PUNTERS (Paradise UNfunded parTnERS).  Representation is mostly
     drawn from members of RARE WG3, and is clear for all countries
     where national pilots exist, or at least country level nodes have
     been taken.  In those other cases, it is unclear who the
     representative is, or which group will represent a future national
     pilot.  The next PUNTERS meeting will be held back-to-back with the



Westine                                                        [Page 26]

Internet Monthly Report                                       April 1991


     RARE WG3 meeting in Zurich, September 30th through October 2nd.  It
     is hoped that demonstrations and tutorials will be offered.
     Internet visitors will be welcomed.

     During the last quarter, AUSTRIA has connected its single DSA to
     the pilot, and hopes to add another shortly.  ITALY provided the
     first non-QUIPU implementation in the pilot.  Systems Wizards
     participated in interoperability testing with UCL to demonstrate
     their product DirWiz.  IRELAND has put up a DSA, but are having
     operational problems.  A national pilot for FRANCE (OPAX) has been
     put together, and it is hoped that once testing with their product,
     PIZARRO, is complete, they will join the pilot.  YUGOSLAVIA took
     delivery of QUIPU 6.7, and hopes to have something working soon.
     SPAIN hopes to have an operational service very shortly.  The UK
     has moved to extend its academic pilot to the commercial world,
     though support will not be provided by the JNT.

     (E) PTT Developments

     PTT Telecom (Netherlands), which is subcontracted to UCL is itself
     subcontracting to the Swiss and Finnish PTTs to provide project
     liaison with the other European PTTs.  The team has developed a
     long term action plan which includes an investigation (by means of
     a survey and interview) of the possible acceptance of X.500 within
     the European PTTs.  Their study will look at whether X.500 can be
     used as a basis of an operational commercial public service; all
     conclusions will be looked at with a view towards taking positive
     future action.  The exact relationship between X.500 and the TPH028
     protocol for interconnecting public telephony directories will also
     be investigated, with discussion of possible future migration.
     Also of some importance to future strategy is the development of
     valid accounting mechanisms; for X.500 these are an order of
     magnitude bigger than those for X.400.  The PTTs will be monitoring
     developments through ETSI.

     David Goodman (d.goodman@cs.ucl.ac.uk)
     PARADISE Project Manager

PSI WHITE PAGES PILOT PROJECT
-----------------------------

     As of May 5th, 1991 there were 76 sites under c=US, 68 of them
     operating as  PRDMDs.  New additions this month: University of
     Alaska Fairbanks, Auburn University.

     In order to test the next DIT naming scheme, the Directory was
     loaded with the US organizations from the UUMAP database (over 6000
     entries).  These are leaf organization objects under the



Westine                                                        [Page 27]

Internet Monthly Report                                       April 1991


     appropriate state.  This uncovered a new optimization for the UFN
     algorithm, which was subsequently coded.

     Marshall Rose (mrose@cheetah.ca.psi.com)

REGISTRATION AUTHORITY COMMITTEE (ANSI USA RAC)
-----------------------------------------------

     This committee (ANSI USA RAC) was formed by the ANSI ISSB
     (Information Systems Standards Board)

         "To serve as an advisory group to the Registration Coordinator
          with regards to technical or procedural questions and to serve
          as an appeals body."

     Members are appointed by the ISSB.

     It held its first meeting at ANSI offices in New York on 30 January
     1991, and its second meeting at Boulder, CO on 4 April 1991.

     At this point, after the second meeting, the USA RAC has approved
     its own operating rules, and has modified and approved the
     previously drafted procedures for registration of Alphanumeric Form
     Names and Numeric Form names under the ISO DCC arc { iso member-
     body US(840) }, which is also known by the numeric object
     identifier form "1 2 840".

     The following unofficial text describes the ANSI organization name
     registration service.

       The American National Standards Institute (ANSI) has established
       an organization name registration service in line with the
       authority vested in ANSI as the U.S. member body of the
       International Standards Organization (ISO).  The service has been
       established in response to industry concerns for creating a U.S.
       national registry of organizational names whose value may be an
       integer or alpha-numeric characters.

       ANSI's service provides that once registered, the owner of the
       registered value must determine its usage and must take the
       appropriate action to encourage its use.  Potential usages are
       foreseen in the context of Open Systems Interconnection products
       and services.  Once registered, the value is asserted to be
       nationally unique within the context defined in ISO standards.
       For example, the values may be used in various computer network
       systems and services to identify entities of interest to users.

       A fee is collected for registration of both the numeric integer



Westine                                                        [Page 28]

Internet Monthly Report                                       April 1991


       and alpha-numeric value.  The fees are designed to cover the
       costs incurred by ANSI in administering the registration
       authority.

       For further information and an application form, contact the
       Registration Coordinator (Beth Somerville), ANSI, 11 West 42nd
       Street, New York, NY 10036.  Phone 212 354 3300.  FAX 212-398-
       0023. (NOTE: This is a new address, but the same FAX and Phone
       numbers.)

     ANSI began registration of numeric name forms in January of 1991,
     and intends to begin registration of alpha-numeric name forms in
     May of 1991.

     In the meantime, ISO and CCITT actions have led to voting on a
     proposal to move the Object Identifier Tree that is allowed to have
     Alpha-numeric Name Forms as well as Numeric Name Forms from the ISO
     arc to the Joint-ISO-CCITT arc, since both ISO and CCITT standards
     and recommendations require alpha-numeric names for certain
     identifiers, such as for X.500 and X.400.  Only one among all the
     trees in the ISO and CCITT "forest" allows alpha-numeric values to
     be registered.

     It is expected that the vote will be affirmative, and that the
     current arc used by ANSI will then be moved to place it under the
     joint-iso-ccitt arc.  This of course means a change in all object
     identifiers currently formed by concatenation with the ANSI
     registered values.

     Another consequence of this action is that both the ISO member-body
     (ANSI) and the CCITT member-body (SG-D) for the U.S. will both have
     some jurisdiction over registration policies and procedures.  The
     processes of alignment and negotiation of joint control have begun
     with the exchange mutual recognition indications between ANSI and
     SG-D.  Fortunately there is a large overlap in the membership of
     both committees.

     So, stay tuned!  The good news is that something is happening.
     Unfortunately, the bad news is that something is happening.

     Einar Stefferud (stef@ics.uci.edu)

SG-D MHS-MD
-----------

     On the X.400 front, the CCITT member-body for the U.S. is the
     Department of State, which fulfills its CCITT member-body role by
     chairing the U.S. CCITT National Committee, which has subordinate



Westine                                                        [Page 29]

Internet Monthly Report                                       April 1991


     Study Groups (A, B, C, and D).  Study Group D (SG-D) is responsible
     for certain telecommunications areas, including X.400 and X.500
     services.  In response to industry concerns about registration of
     ADMD and PRMD names in the U.S., SG-D formed a new subcommittee
     (MHS-MD) to develop rules and procedures for MHS MD name
     registration and use.

     The MHS-MD committee has met twice since it was commissioned under
     a charter that was developed by an ad hoc MHS-MD group for
     consideration and adoption by SG-D.  The first official meeting was
     held at the U.S.  Department of State on 17-18 December 1990, and
     the second meeting in Scottsdale, AZ, on 7-8 March 1991.  The next
     meeting will be held on 6-7 June 1991, at the U.S. Department of
     State in Washington, DC.  Additional meetings are set for 16-17
     September 1991, and 6-7 December 1991.

     All meetings of the MHS-MD subcommittee are open to anyone doing
     business in the U.S. who has an interest in the issues before the
     subcommittee.  All outputs from the MHS-MD subcommittee are
     forwarded to SG-D for consideration and adoption, and are then
     passed on to the U.S. CCITT National Committee for ratification.

     Now, why, you ask, is the U.S. Department of State involved in such
     arcane technical matters in the telecommunication services area?
     Good question!  The answer is that in the U.S., where there are
     many telecommunication service providers, many of which provide
     international services with connections to service providers in
     other countries, someone has to be responsible for fulfillment of
     U.S.  treaty obligations under the ITU (International
     Telecommunications Union) treaties.

     Although, we in the U.S. do not consider packet switching or X.500
     or X.400 to be "basic telecommunication services" under the ITU
     treaties, the fact is that if any other country does make these
     services "basic" according to law, then the ITU treaties take
     effect and the U.S. Department of State must act to fulfill its
     treaty responsibilities under U.S. law for compliance with all
     applicable aspects of the ITU treaties.

     Under these treaties, all U.S. service providers are obligated to
     make arrangements such that any user in any foreign country can
     make a packet service connection or address X.400 mail to any user
     connected to a U.S. public service provider of those services, and
     expect the connection to be made, or the mail to be delivered,
     regardless of which U.S. service provider serves the addressed
     user.

     Thus, the U.S. Department of State has a vested interest in



Westine                                                        [Page 30]

Internet Monthly Report                                       April 1991


     assuring that there is a sufficient U.S. service provider
     "backbone" to support international connections to any user on any
     network in the U.S.

     For X.400, this starts with ADMD and PRMD Name Registration and
     ends with rules for how the ADMDs (public service providers) will
     voluntarily arrange to provide a suitable backbone operation for
     X.400 mail services.  It is expected that SG-D may have a similar
     interest in X.500 directory services.  Thus, it is encouraged to
     send copies of any contribution to ANSI or SG-D to the other.  Each
     has agreed to keep the other fully informed.

     The MHS-MD subcommittee is not as far along with its MD name
     registration procedures as the ANSI USA RAC, in part because it
     started work much later (ANSI procedures have been under
     development since 1988).  Another reason is that the problem is
     somewhat harder for X.400 because of the "real estate" problem: The
     restriction of ADMD/PRMD names to 16 characters of PrintableString
     and the requirement that these names form a single flat space of
     unique names for the entire c=US.

     Fortunately, X.500 does not force either of these restrictions on
     the choice of names for organizations registered under c=US.

     MHS-MD is now assembling its first draft for review and progression
     at its meeting in June, and we expect that a final draft will be
     available by the December meeting of this year.

     Einar Stefferud (stef@ics.uci.edu)






















Westine                                                        [Page 31]
