





~









September 1991


INTERNET MONTHLY REPORTS
------------------------

The purpose of these reports is to communicate to the Internet Research
Group the accomplishments, milestones reached, or problems discovered by
the participating organizations.

     This report is for Internet information purposes only, and is not
     to be quoted in other publications without permission from the
     submitter.

Each organization is expected to submit a 1/2 page report on the first
business day of the month describing the previous month's activities.

These reports should be submitted via network mail to:

     Ann Westine (Westine@ISI.EDU)
     NSF Regional reports - Corinne Carroll (ccarroll@NNSC.NSF.NET)
     Directory Services reports - Tom Tignor (TPT2@ISI.EDU)

Requests to be added or deleted from the Internet Monthly report list
should be sent to "westine@isi.edu".

Back issues of the Internet Monthly Report can be copied via FTP:

     FTP>  nis.nsf.net
     Login: anonymous guest
     ftp> cd imr
     ls
     get IMRYY-MM.TXT

For example, JUNE 1991 is in the file IMR91-06.TXT.






Westine                                                         [Page 1]

Internet Monthly Report                                   September 1991


TABLE OF CONTENTS

  INTERNET ACTIVITIES BOARD

     IAB MESSAGE  . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  4
     INTERNET ENGINEERING REPORTS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  4

  Internet Projects

     BOLT BERANEK AND NEWMAN, INC.,  . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 16
     CSUNET (CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY NETWORK). . . . . . . page 17
     ISI . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 18
     JVNCNET, NORTH EAST RESEARCH REGIONAL NETWORK . . . . . . page 18
     LOS NETTOS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 20
     MERIT/MICHNET . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 20
     NEW ENGLAND ACADEMIC AND RESEARCH NETWORK . . . . . . . . page 21
     NNSC, UCAR/BOLT BERANEK and NEWMAN, INC., . . . . . . . . page 21
     NSFNET BACKBONE, MERIT. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 21
     PITTSBURGH SUPERCOMPUTER CENTER . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 27
     PREPnet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 28
     SAIC. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 28
     SRI . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 29
     UCL . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 29
     UDEL. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 30
     WISCNET . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 31

  DIRECTORY SERVICES ACTIVITIES

     DIRECTORY SERVICES MESSAGE  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 32
     FOX - FIELD OPERATIONAL X.500 PROJECT . . . . . . . . . . page 32
        ISI. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 33
        MERIT. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 33
        PSI. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 33
        SRI. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 34
     NORTH AMERICAN DIRECTORY FORUM. . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 34
     PSI DARPA/NNT X.500 PROJECT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 34
     PSI WHITE PAGES PILOT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 34
     SG-D MHS-MD . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 35













Westine                                                         [Page 2]

Internet Monthly Report                                   September 1991


  CALENDAR OF EVENTS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 37


















































Westine                                                         [Page 3]

Internet Monthly Report                                   September 1991



IAB MESSAGE

     INTERNET ACTIVITIES BOARD

     Since May 1991, the IAB has taken the following standards actions,
     following recommendations from the IESG.

       o  Draft Standard state for "Concise MIB Definitions",
          RFC-1212.

       o  Standard state for MIB-II: "Management Information Base
          for Network Management of TCP/IP-based internets",
          RFC-1213.

       o  Proposed Standard state for Network Time Protocol (NTP)
          Version 3, RFC in preparation.

       o  Proposed Standard state for ICMP Router Discovery protocol,
          RFC-1256

       o  The IAB produced RFC 1262 on Measurement Activity Guidelines
          co-ordinated by Hans-Werner Braun and with the assistance of
          Michael F. Schwartz.


     Bob Braden (Braden@ISI.EDU)

INTERNET ENGINEERING REPORTS
----------------------------

                       IETF report for September 1991
                    Reported by Phillip Gross, IETF Chair

     Introduction

     This reports on the July IETF meeting and the period from July 1991
     through September 1991.  The July IETF meeting was a particularly
     active one.  In fact, we still have quite a backlog of actions to
     get through the process.

     Some actions about to emerge include 5 documents on BGP, the
     ethernet MIB (in original version), the recommendation for the
     "common IGP", a set of X.500 documents, 2 Frame Relay documents,
     and several other MIBs.  Please see sections 7-10 of this report
     for completed actions between July and September 1991.

     A version of this report will be included in the Proceedings for



Westine                                                         [Page 4]

Internet Monthly Report                                   September 1991


     the July IETF meeting.

     Contents

     1.  Thanks to Atlanta hosts -- BellSouth and Caroline Cranfill
     2.  IETF and IESG Status Report
     3.  New IETF Secretariat staffing
     4.  Atlanta's Open Plenary
     5.  Internet Society
     6.  Focus on international growth
     7.  4 New Working Group(s) formed between Jul 01 and Sep 30, 1991
     8.  7 Working Group(s) concluded between Jul 01 and Sep 30, 1991
     9.  75 Internet Draft Actions between Jul 01 and Sep 30, 1991
     10. 12 RFC's Produced between Jul 01 and Sep 30, 1991

     1. Thanks to Atlanta hosts -- BellSouth and Caroline Cranfill

     I'd like to extend my appreciation to BellSouth and Caroline
     Cranfill for hosting the Atlanta IETF meeting.  The facilities and
     connectivity were excellent.  Our hosts deserve special thanks for
     the Tuesday evening social activity, which gave us a fine
     introduction to Atlanta hospitality.  Thanks to our hosts for
     helping to make the IETF in Atlanta a successful one.

     2. IETF and IESG Status Report

     At the start of the Atlanta IETF meeting, there were 63 working
     groups in 9 areas (one area, Standards Practices, does not have
     working groups).  For Atlanta, 9 working groups submitted "final"
     Internet-Drafts.  Some of these documents represent standards
     actions, for which the IESG will be forwarding recommendations to
     the IAB.  Others are informational documents.  Most of these
     working groups will retire when their documents are published as
     RFCs (either as standards or informationl RFCs).

     These numbers, both the total number of working groups and the
     number of working groups approaching conclusion at one meeting,
     represent high-water marks (yet-again) for IETF activity.  Detailed
     listings and status of working groups will be provided in the
     Proceedings for the July IETF meeting.

     There has been some new additions to the IESG, and some minor
     restructuring, since the March IETF meeting.

     First, we have added a new "Transport and Services Area", led by
     David Borman of Cray.  Long time IETF attendees will recognize
     David from his numerous reports in the past regarding his work
     implementing high performance TCP for the Cray operating system,



Westine                                                         [Page 5]

Internet Monthly Report                                   September 1991


     based Van Jacobson's enhancements.  This new area will also include
     activities that don't quite fall properly into either the Internet
     or Application Areas (from a "layerist" perspective).  The DNS
     activities are an example.  We used to have an area called "Host
     and User Services", led by Craig Partridge.  When Craig left for
     his postdoctoral position at the Swedish Institute of Computer
     Science (SICS) last fall, we divided the transport and other host
     issues between the Internet and Application Areas and elevated User
     Services as a distinct area (led by Joyce Reynolds, USC-ISI).
     However, that move added additional topics to two of the largest
     IETF areas (i.e., Internet and Applications).  Plus, we soon
     realized that we had need for specific transport level expertise on
     the IESG.  Therefore, we decided to form the new "Transport and
     Services Area".  We are very pleased that David has been able to
     join the IESG to fill this new position.

     Next, I am very happy to announce that the Operational Requirements
     Area is now fully staffed.  Bernhard Stockman (Nordunet) and Susan
     Estrada (Cerfnet) have joined the IESG as co-Area Directors for
     this important area.  Bernhard brings a special understanding of
     international networking to this task, which will help us as the
     Internet, and the surrounding technical issues, expand globally.
     Susan brings a perspective based on two important views -- her long
     time key association with FARNET and her role as Executive Director
     of a midlevel network.  I had been acting as an interim Director
     for this Area, and I will continue to work with Susan and Bernhard
     for the near future.  One of the first objectives will be to form
     an Operational Requirements Area Directorate.  We held an open
     session in Atlanta which we hope will act as an organizational
     session for the ORAD.  You can read Susan's report on that meeting
     later in these Proceedings.

     I am also pleased to welcome Philip Almquist onto the IESG, joining
     Noel Chiappa as co-Director of the Internet Area.  The Internet
     Area is one of the largest, and historically one of the more
     important, in the IETF and it will profit from the additional
     attention that Noel and Philip together will now be able to bring
     to bear.  Philip will bring an important perspective as the current
     chair of the Router Requirements working group.

     I am also sorry to have to report that Rob Hagens (University of
     Wisconsin) has had to leave the IESG due to other pressing time
     commitments.  We will miss Rob as the co-Director for the OSI
     Integration Area, with Ross Callon (DEC).  Fortunately, we will not
     lose Rob completely because he will remain as co-chair of the X.400
     Operational working group.  The OSI Integration Area is a large
     area, requiring a special set of skills, and we already are looking
     for someone to join Ross in leading this area.  Rob, we will miss



Westine                                                         [Page 6]

Internet Monthly Report                                   September 1991


     you on the IESG, but we look forward to your continued
     contributions to the IETF as a working group chair.

     With the changes above,  there are now 10 IETF Areas and 13 members
     of the IESG.  A complete listing of the areas and members will be
     provided in the Proceedings for the Atlanta IETF meeting.

     3. New IETF Secretariat staffing

     Over the past couple years, the IETF has grown a great deal.  Most
     of the technical activities of the IETF are handled by volunteers
     from either academia or industry (i.e., the working group chairs,
     the IESG members, and/or the many individual working group
     contributors).  However, with 3 yearly meetings of 350-400
     attendees, the administration and logistics of the IETF can no
     longer be handled solely by volunteers.

     To handle the growing administrative and logistics necessities, a
     professional staff has grown up at CNRI over the last few years to
     support the many volunteer technical contributors.  With the hiring
     this summer of Steve Coya (CNRI) as IETF Executive Director,
     perhaps it is now time to recognize this "IETF Secretariat" for the
     important role it now plays.  It is clear, at least in my mind,
     that the IETF could no longer function as efficiently as it now
     does without this important support.

     The current full-time professional staff comprising the "IETF
     Secretariat" at CNRI is:

             - Steve Coya       IETF Executive Director
             - Greg Vaudreuil   IESG Secretary
             - Megan Davies     Proceedings and Logistics Coordinator
             - Cynthia Clark    Administrative support
             - Debra Legare     Secretary

     Please join me in thanking these folks and CNRI for the wonderful
     support they have provided in the past and will continue to provide
     at future meetings.  If there are any questions or suggestions
     regarding the Secretariat, please feel free to correspond directly
     with Steve Coya (scoya@nri.reston.va.us).  Either Vint Cerf (CNRI)
     or myself can also answer questions, if Steve is not available.

     4. Atlanta's Open Plenary

     The Atlanta meeting represents the largest number of working groups
     the IETF has ever sponsored in one place at one time.  As a measure
     of the growth and activity of the IETF, this is an exciting
     statistic.  However, it also raises important questions about how



Westine                                                         [Page 7]

Internet Monthly Report                                   September 1991


     large the IETF can grow and still enjoy its present success and
     utilize its present format.

     These and other issues were very much on the minds of attendees
     during the open plenary session on Thursday afternoon.

     Specifically, this most recent growth surge has re-surfaced some
     problems that we have seen, and dealt with, in the past.  For
     example, there is the simple logistics hassle of scheduling many
     parallel WG meetings so that important groups do not overlap.
     There is also the problem of bringing new players into the WG
     activities without completely rehashing all the old technical
     issues.

     One answer is to increase our effective usage of electronic mail.
     However, then we must be careful to balance the "group consensus"
     reached by email versus the consensus reached by onsite attendees.
     And, of course, there is the general problem of reaching closure on
     technical issues in a large group, whether that group is meeting
     face-to-face or by email.

     These are all problems that we have seen in various degrees, and
     attempted to deal with in various ways, in the past.  These are all
     problems that seem to re-surface at the leading edge of any new
     IETF growth surge.

     What's less clear, at least to me, is whether we have finally hit a
     "wall", in which the basic procedures that the IETF has developed
     to conduct business are no longer valid, or whether we merely need
     to adapt to the new environemnt (yet-again) by evolving our
     operating procedures.

     One of the strengths of the IETF has always been its ability to
     evolve and to adapt to new conditions.  In many ways, we are still
     learning lessons about how best to conduct our business.  "Making
     it up as we go" has been both a blessing and a curse.  At times we
     have seen interactions between the IAB and IESG, or between the
     IESG and the working groups, suffer from lack of clarity of
     "procedures".  On the other hand, when conditions change around us,
     we have always had the flexibilty to adapt quickly.

     My personal feeling is that our ability to evolve has been one of
     the major keys to our success.  I think we must all recognize that
     the networking world has changed in recent years in ways that very
     few could have predicted, and the IETF has had the ability to learn
     from any missteps and change along with it.  We are still evolving,
     and I'd like to think that we have a ways to go (and grow) before
     we hit a "wall".



Westine                                                         [Page 8]

Internet Monthly Report                                   September 1991


     Some excellent suggestions came out at Thursday's open plenary
     sesssion.  Acting on these suggestions, we will add an extra
     afternoon session on Friday at the next IETF meeting.  This will
     allow us to add one additional WG session to the current generic
     schedule and to devote both all of Monday and Tuesday to WG
     sessions.  We will also try to make good use of the new/old idea of
     "Birds of a feather" sessions, to explore subjects before commiting
     expensive (and scarce) personnel resources to starting up a full
     WG.  (In Atlanta, we had 5 BOFs on important subjects.)  We will
     make an extra effort to schedule "overview" sessions on topics of
     interest, particularly as status reports on ongoing WG activities.
     This will help keep general attendees and new players abreast of
     activities on other areas.

     Finally, we will enhance our current set of guidelines for WG
     chairs to provide suggestions on how to handle new attendees who
     need to be brought up to speed and how to achieve closure in the
     face of questions from these new players.  For example, acting on a
     suggestion from the open plenary, we will ask WG chairs to do a
     better job of recording the rationale for all technical decisions.
     In this way, new players will have a better record of why specific
     decision were made.

     Some other suggestions were as simple as to make better use of
     agendas and to invoke a different set of meeting guidelines as a WG
     nears conclusion.  For example, in Atlanta the Router Requirements
     WG had a strict agenda of still-open topics, and the chair
     announced beforehand that previous issues would not be re-opened in
     Atlanta without very good cause.

     It's also important for WG chairs to understand that they are bound
     to reach consensus, not unanimity.  That is, in the face of
     unresolved technical opinions, it is perfectly valid for the chair
     to adapt the consensus view and then move forward.

     It is important to understand that the open plenary sessions have
     always played an important role in guiding the IETF.  (In fact, in
     *very* beginning, there were no WGs, so the entire meeting was an
     open plenary!)  The open plenaries have included IESG reports since
     the IESG formation at the Hawaii meeting (Fall 1989).

     Of course, there are other ways to provide comments on IETF
     activity.  The main IETF mailing list is available for that purpose
     (ietf@isi.edu).  The IESG can be reached individually or
     collectively (iesg@nri.reston.va.us).  I am always available either
     by phone or email (pgross@ans.net, 914-789-5335), and the IETF
     Secretariat can be reached through Steve Coya, IETF Excutive
     Director, (scoya@nri.reston.va.us).



Westine                                                         [Page 9]

Internet Monthly Report                                   September 1991


     I believe it is very important to have direct interaction with
     attendees and others interested in IETF activities.  This makes the
     IETF very much a self-guiding body, and I think that has
     contributed as much to the IETF's success as any other factor.

     5. Internet Society

     This meeting saw the announcement of the Internet Society by Vint
     Cerf (CNRI).

     The Internet Society will be a professional society which we hope
     will grow to encompass the activities of the IAB and IETF in a
     positive way.  The IAB and IESG are very supportive of the Internet
     Society, and we look forward to working with Vint on developing the
     specific method by which the IAB and IETF both become part of this
     new important group.

     Vint Cerf's presentation fooils will be included in the Proceedings
     for the July IETF.

     6. Focus on international growth

     Another topic that received considerable attention at this meeting
     was the growing focus in the IETF on global networking issues.
     This emphasis is almost unavoidable as the Internet grows
     internationally.  (MERIT's network status report again showed that
     the non-US portion continues to be the fastest growing segment of
     the Internet.)

     We had the largest showing of non-US attendees in Atlanta, and we
     now have non-US representation on both the IAB and IESG.

     This raised the possibility of holding an IETF meeting outside of
     North America (we have already held an IETF in British Columbia).
     I think this is a very natural and desirable outcome.  However, we
     have to approach it cautiously.  Many US employers and US federal
     agencies treat non-US travel quite differently from domestic
     travel.  We need to make sure that the environment has matured
     properly so that we can expect to get representative participation
     at any IETF meeting outside North America.  As important as it is
     to begin holding IETF meetings in non-US venues, it could be
     damaging to our very goals of internationalization if we held a
     non-US meeting that was poorly attended by US participants.

     We normally schedule IETF meetings 12-18 months in advance, so the
     earliest spot not yet scheduled is Fall 1992 or Winter 1993.
     Fortunately, this provides time to prepare and plan for our first
     meeting outside North America.



Westine                                                        [Page 10]

Internet Monthly Report                                   September 1991


     One way to help prepare the climate for such a meeting is make the
     Internet Society a strong and successful organization.  One of the
     principal goals of the Internet Society will be to focus on
     international networking issues.  So please consider joining the
     Internet Society.  For my part, I will work directly with Vint Cerf
     and incoming IAB chair Lyman Chapin (BBN) to see that the IAB and
     IETF are incorporated into the Internet Society in a positive and
     natural fashion.

     7.  4 New Working Group(s) formed between Jul 01 and Sep 30, 1991

         Trusted Network File Systems (tnfs)
         Privacy-Enhanced Electronic Mail (pem)
         Automated Internet Mailing List Services (list)
         Internet K-12 Networking (k12)

     8.  7 Working Group(s) concluded between Jul 01 and Sep 30, 1991

         Router Discovery (rdisc)
         Management Services Interface (msi)
         Topology Engineering (tewg)
         OSI X.400 (osix400)
         Internet Security Policy (spwg)
         FDDI MIB (fddimib)
         DDN Interconnectivity (ddniwg)

     9. 75 Internet Draft Actions between Jul 01 and Sep 30, 1991

      (Revised draft (o), New Draft (+) )

        WG             I-D Title  <Filename>
      ------       -----------------------------------------------------
      (osids)    o An Interim Approach to use of Network Addresses
                     <draft-ucl-kille-networkaddresses-04.txt, or .ps>
      (osids)    o A String Encoding of Presentation Address
                     <draft-ucl-kille-presentationaddress-03.txt, or .ps>
      (idpr)     o An Architecture for Inter-Domain Policy Routing
                     <draft-ietf-idpr-architecture-03.txt>
      (telnet)   o Telnet Data Encryption Option
                     <draft-ietf-telnet-encryption-01.txt>
      (telnet)   o Telnet Authentication Option
                     <draft-ietf-telnet-authentication-02.txt>
      (telnet)   o Telnet Authentication Option
                     <draft-ietf-telnet-authentication-02.txt>
      (rreq)     o Requirements for Internet IP Routers
                     <draft-ietf-rreq-iprouters-02.txt>
      (snmp)     o Definitions of Managed Objects for the SIP
                   Interface Type



Westine                                                        [Page 11]

Internet Monthly Report                                   September 1991


                     <draft-ietf-snmp-smdssipmib-03.txt>
      (osids)    o Replication and Distributed Operations Extensions to
                   Provide an Internet Directory using X.500
                     <draft-ietf-osids-replsoln-03.txt, or .ps>
      (osids)    o The COSINE and Internet X.500 Schema
                     <draft-ietf-osids-cosinex500-05.txt>
      (charmib)  o Definitions of Managed Objects for RS-232-like
                   Hardware Devices
                     <draft-ietf-charmib-rs232like-02.txt>
      (charmib)  o Definitions of Managed Objects for Character Stream
                   Devices
                     <draft-ietf-charmib-charmib-01.txt>
      (charmib)  o Definitions of Managed Objects for Parallel-printer-
                   like Hardware Devices
                     <draft-ietf-charmib-parallelprinter-01.txt>
      (osids)    o Replication Requirement to Provide an Internet
                   Directory Using X.500
                     <draft-ietf-osids-replication-03.txt, or .ps>
      (none)     o Network Time Protocol: Version 3
                     <draft-mills-ntpv3-01.txt, or .ps>
      (osids)    o Handling QOS (Quality of service) in the Directory
                     <draft-ietf-osids-qos-01.txt, or .ps>
      (osids)    o Naming Guidelines for Directory Pilots
                     <draft-ietf-osids-dirpilots-02.txt, .ps>
      (osids)    o DSA Naming
                     <draft-ietf-osids-dsanaming-01.txt, or .ps>
      (pem)      o Privacy Enhancement for Internet Electronic Mail:
                   Part I: Message Encryption and Authentication
                   Procedures
                     <draft-ietf-pem-msgproc-01.txt>
      (rdisc)    o ICMP Router Discovery Messages
                     <draft-ietf-rdisc-icmpmessage-01.txt>
      (null)     o Mapping between X.400(1988) / ISO 10021 and RFC 822
                     <draft-ietf-kille-x_400mapping-03.txt>
      (decnetiv) o DECnet Phase IV MIB Extensions
                     <draft-ietf-decnetiv-mibextensions-01.txt, .ps>
      (iplpdn)   o Inverse Address Resolution Protocol
                     <draft-ietf-iplpdn-inarp-03.txt>
      (iplpdn)   o Multiprotocol Interconnect over Frame Relay Networks
                     <draft-ietf-iplpdn-ipoverframerelay-03.txt>
      (iplpdn)   o Management Information Base for Frame Relay DTEs
                     <draft-ietf-iplpdn-frmib-01.txt>
      (pppext)   o The Point-to-Point Protocol for the Transmission of
                   Multi-Protocol Datagrams Over Point-to-Point Links
                     <draft-ietf-pppext-lcp-01.txt>
      (pppext)   o The PPP Internet Protocol Control Protocol (IPCP)
                     <draft-ietf-pppext-ipcp-01.txt>
      (null)     o X.400 1988 to 1984 downgrading



Westine                                                        [Page 12]

Internet Monthly Report                                   September 1991


                     <draft-ietf-kille-88to84downgrade-01.txt, .ps>
      (822ext)   o Mnemonic Text Format
                     <draft-ietf-822ext-qreadable-02.txt>
      (822ext)   + Character Mnemonics and Character Sets
                     <draft-ietf-822ext-char-00.txt>
      (null)     + An Approach to CO/CL Interworking -- Part II:
                   Specification -- Conventions for Transport-
                   Service Bridges
                     <draft-ccirn-cocl-tsspecification-00.txt>
      (pppext)   + Proposed Point-to-Point Procotol for AppleTalk
                     <draft-ietf-pppext-appletalk-00.txt>
      (rmon)     o Remote Network Monitoring Management Information Base
                     <draft-ietf-rmon-mib-01.txt>
      (pem)      o The MD5 Message-Digest Algorithm
                     <draft-rsadsi-rivest-md5-01.txt>
      (osids)    + Directory Requirements for COSINE and Internet Pilots
                   (OSI-DS 18)
                     <draft-ietf-osids-requirements-00.txt, .ps>
      (dhc)      + Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol
                     <draft-ietf-dhc-protocol-00.txt, .ps>
      (none)     o Mid-Level Networks; A Minimum Services Provider
                     <draft-aggarwal-services-01.txt, .ps>
      (pem)      + The MD2 Message-Digest Algorithm
                     <draft-rsadsi-kaliski-md2-00.txt>
      (pem)      + The MD4 Message-Digest Algorithm
                     <draft-rsadsi-rivest-md4-00.txt>
      (pem)      + Privacy Enhancement for Internet Electronic Mail:
                   Part IV: Notary, Co-Issuer, CRL-Storing and
                   CRL-Retrieving Services
                     <draft-ietf-pem-notary-00.txt>
      (osids)    + Generic Security Service Application Program
                   Interface Overview and C bindings
                     <draft-ietf-cat-secservice-00.txt>
      (smtpext)  + SMTP Extensions for Transport of Text-Based
                   Messages Containing 8-bit Characters
                     <draft-ietf-smtpext-8bittransport-00.txt>
      (none)     + International character support in SMTP
                     <draft-prime-ullmann-smtp-00.txt>
      (none)     + RFC "nroff macros"
                     <draft-isi-rfc_nroff_macros-00.txt>
      (null)     + A LaTeX Style for RFCs and Internet Drafts
                     <draft-droms-latexrfcstyle-00.txt>
      (nisi)     + Building a Network Information Services Infrastructure
                     <draft-ietf-nisi-infrastructure-00.txt>
      (pem)      + Privacy Enhancement for Internet Electronic Mail:
                   Part II:  Certificate-Based Key Management
                     <draft-ietf-pem-keymgmt-00.txt>
      (null)     + RFC Document Type for Scribe



Westine                                                        [Page 13]

Internet Monthly Report                                   September 1991


                     <draft-trewitt-scriberfcstyle-00.txt>
      (fddimib)  + FDDI Management Information Base
                     <draft-ietf-fddimib-mib-00.txt>
      (fddimib)  + SNMP Trap Definitions For FDDI Management
                     <draft-ietf-fddimib-trapdef-00.txt>
      (idpr)     + Definitions of Managed Objects for the Inter-Domain
                   Policy Routing Protocol (Version 1)
                     <draft-ietf-idpr-mib-00.txt, .ps>
      (tnfs)     + A Specification of Trusted NFS (TNFS) Protocol
                   Extensions
                     <draft-ietf-tnfs-spec-00.txt, .ps>
      (hubmib)   + Definitions of Managed Objects for IEEE 802.3
                   Repeater Devices
                     <draft-ietf-hubmib-mib-00.txt>
      (ospf)     + OSPF Version 2 Traps
                     <draft-ietf-ospf-trapmib-00.txt>
      (iesg)     + An Internet Evolution Plan for the IETF
                     <draft-ietf-iesg-evolutionplan-00.txt>
      (rreq)     + Ruminations on Route Leaking
                     <draft-almquist-leak-00.ps>
      (rreq)     + Type of Service in the Internet Protocol
                     <draft-almquist-tos-00.txt>
      (rreq)     + Some Thoughts on Multi-Domain Routing
                     <draft-callon-routing-00.txt>
      (rreq)     + Ruminations on the Next Hop
                     <draft-almquist-nexthop-00.ps>
      (idpr)     + Inter-Domain Policy Routing Configuration and Usage
                     <draft-ietf-idpr-configuration-00.txt>
      (pppext)   + The PPP OSI Network Layer Control Protocol (OSINLCP)
                     <draft-ietf-pppext-osinlcp-00.txt>
      (mospf)    + Multicast Extensions to OSPF
                     <draft-ietf-mospf-multicast-00.ps>
      (disi)     + A Catalog of Available X.500 Implementations
                     <draft-ietf-disi-catalog-00.txt>
      (pppext)   + The PPP Authentication Protocols
                     <draft-ietf-pppext-authentication-00.txt>
      (none)     + A New IP Routing and Addressing Architecture
                     <draft-chiappa-routing-00.txt>
      (iesg)     + IESG Recommendation for Internet Interior Gateway
                   Routing Protocols
                     <draft-iesg-commonigp-00.txt>
      (bgp)      + Default Route Advertisement In The Border Gateway
                   Protocol
                     <draft-ietf-bgp-defaultroute-00.txt>
      (rreq)     + IP Forwarding Table MIB
                     <draft-ietf-rreq-forwarding-00.txt>
      (null)     + RIP Version 2 Addition of Subnet Masks
                     <draft-ietf-malkin-rip-00.txt>



Westine                                                        [Page 14]

Internet Monthly Report                                   September 1991


      (pem)      + Privacy Enhancement for Internet Electronic Mail:
                   Part III:  Algorithms, Modes, and Identifiers
                     <draft-ietf-pem-algorithms-00.txt>
      (rmon)     + SNMP Trap Definitions For Remote Network Monitoring
                     <draft-ietf-rmon-trap-00.txt>
      (bgp)      o Multicast Communications Using BGP
                     <draft-ietf-bgp-multicast-01.txt>
      (null)     + Security Information Transfer Protocol (SITP)
                     <draft-feil-sitp-00.txt>
      (bgp)      + Application of the Border Gateway Protocol in the
                   Internet
                     <ietf-draft-bgp-usage-00.txt>
      (osids)    + An Access Control Approach for Searching and Listing
                     <draft-ietf-osids-accesscntrl-00.txt, .ps>

     10. 12 RFC's Produced between Jul 01, 1991 and Sep 30, 1991

         (Standard (S), Proposed Standard (PS), Draft Standard (DS),
          Experimental (E), Informational (I) )

       RFC  Status WG        Title
     ------- -- --------   ----------------------------------------
     RFC1237 PS (osinsap)    Guidelines for OSI NSAP Allocation in
                             the Internet
     RFC1242    (bmwg)       Benchmarking Terminology for Network
                             Interconnection Devices
     RFC1243 PS (appleip)    AppleTalk Management Information Base
     RFC1244    (ssphwg)     Site Security Handbook
     RFC1245    (ospf)       OSPF Protocol Analysis
     RFC1246    (ospf)       Experience with the OSPF Protocol
     RFC1247 DS (ospf)       OSPF Version 2
     RFC1248 PS (ospf)       OSPF Version 2 Management Information Base
     RFC1252 PS (ospf)       OSPF Version 2 Management Information Base

     RFC1253 PS (ospf)       OSPF Version 2 Management Information Base
     RFC1254    (pcc)        Gateway Congestion Control Survey
     RFC1256 PS (rdisc)      ICMP Router Discovery Messages

     Standards( 7),  Experimental(  ), Informational( 5)

     Phill Gross (pgross@NRI.RESTON.VA.US)










Westine                                                        [Page 15]

Internet Monthly Report                                   September 1991


INTERNET PROJECTS
-----------------

BOLT BERANEK AND NEWMAN INC.
----------------------------

     ST Conferencing

     During September, a second independent conferencing site was added
     at BBN to support the DWS project.  BBN-DWS was the first
     conferencing site directly connected to the TWB through a T/20
     instead of a butterfly gateway.  Subsequently, the WPC conferencing
     gateway was also replaced with a T/20.  Conferencing between sites
     with T/20s and between T/20 and Butterfly gateway sites went ahead
     successfully.  We conducted an important demonstration between BBN
     and WPC for Admiral Hess at the end of September.

     With the addition of BBN-DWS, there are now nine conferencing
     sites.  We anticipate that a tenth will be added in October, when
     the Ft.  Leavenworth SIMNET and conferencing equipment is scheduled
     to be reconnected to the TWB.  There were a total of 19 video
     conferences and demonstrations during September.  Of these, two
     included four sites, five included three, and the remaining 12 were
     point to point.  Although the BBN hublet can no longer support
     four-site conferencing, we were able to accommodate one request for
     a four-site conference because it included sites that also had
     Concept codecs.  The other four-site conference was supported by
     temporarily borrowing equipment from another DARPA project after a
     special request from DARPA.  A third four-site conference request
     was denied sue to lack of equipment.  Conferences were held for
     discussions in the following areas: DART, IDPR, OMG, LANL projects,
     DARPA projects, the Brazilian National Packet Network, and the NOS
     contract.  There were no SIMNET exercises this month.

     Jil Westcott (westcott@bbn.com)
















Westine                                                        [Page 16]

Internet Monthly Report                                   September 1991


CSUNET (The California State University Network)
-----------------------------------------------

Over the last two months, CSUnet has installed six more StrataCom IPX
multiplexers and upgraded from 56K to T-1 at these sites:

               StrataCom    upgraded
    Site          IPX/16 |  cisco link     | T-1 installed to   |  other
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
CSU Bakersfield   newly  | frame-relay     | Fresno             | 2-way
              installed  |                 |                    | VIDEO
Sonoma State Univ newly  | frame-relay     | San Francisco      |
CSU Northridge    newly  | hdlc to backbone| Los Alamitos NOC   |
CalPoly Pomona    newly  | hdlc to backbone| Fullerton          |
CSU Long Beach    newly  | hdlc to backbone| Los Alamitos NOC   |
CSU Stanislaus    newly  | frame-relay     | Fresno             |

     Other new connections/events:

     - The CSU Chancellor's Office now has a cisco providing IP and
       AppleTalk

     - The CSUnet backbone has undergone renumbering in order to provide
       symmetric IP routing over T-1 paths instead of T-1 and 56k paths

     - BARRnet has fixed BARRnet's internal routing configuration (EGP
       and IGRP to OSPF) to provide more reliable primary/secondary
       routing for CSUnet

     - CSU Sacramento and CSU Bakersfield carried on a two-way video
       conference over the T-1 backbone using the IPX network with 384K
       compressed-video. A demonstration was held at the quarterly
       CSUnet Network Task Force meeting. The video routed over the
       network from CSU Sacramento media center via CSU Fresno to CSU
       Bakersfield's media center.  CSU Fresno was also able to watch
       as it received the video/audio directly from CSU Sacramento via
       the California Owen's Valley Microwave Project media.

     Plans for October:

     - IPX and T-1 installs at CSU San Bernardino and Humboldt State

     Mike Marcinkevicz (mdm@CSU.net)








Westine                                                        [Page 17]

Internet Monthly Report                                   September 1991


ISI
---

     GIGABIT NETWORKING

     Infrastructure

     Six RFCs were published this month.

        RFC 1255:  The North American Directory Forum, "A Naming
                   Scheme for c=US", September 1991.

        RFC 1256:  Deering, S., "ICMP Router Discovery Messages"
                   September 1991.

        RFC 1257:  Partridge, C., "Isochronous Applications Do Not
                   Require Jitter-Controlled Networks", Swedish
                   Institute of Computer Science, September 1991.

        RFC 1258:  Kantor, B., "BSD Rlogin", UCSD, September 1991.

        RFC 1259:  Kapor, M., "Building The Open Road: The NREN As
                   Test-Bed For The National Public Network",
                   Electronic Frontier Foundation, September 1991.

        RFC 1261:  Williamson, S., and L. Nobile, "Transition of
                   NIC Serices", Network Solutions, September 1991.

     Ann Westine (Westine@ISI.EDU)

JVNCNET, NORTH EAST RESEARCH REGIONAL NETWORK
---------------------------------------------

     JvNCnet
     Princeton University
     B6 von Neumann Hall
     Princeton, NJ  08544
     General telephone number:  609-258-2400

     Director:  Sergio Heker
     Compiled by Rochelle Hammer

     JvNCnet contact information:

     Network operations:
     Email:   noc@jvnc.net    609-258-1544      24 hours/7 days





Westine                                                        [Page 18]

Internet Monthly Report                                   September 1991


     Information services:
     Email: nisc@jvnc.net     609-258-2505      9:00-5:00 M-F
     On-line information is available from nisc.jvnc.net. Username
     is nicol and no password.

     News

     A new toll-free number to reach JvNCnet, 1-800-35TIGER, begins
     October 21.

     A JvNCnet symposium on Network Applications is being scheduled for
     November.  For more information, please send email to
     "nisc.jvnc.net".

     Meckler Publishing and JvNCnet, through a joint project, have
     entered the wonderful world of electronic publishing.  JvNCnet's
     Network Operations Center

     On-Line (NICOL) application swings open the door to Meckler's
     periodical, journal, sponsored conferences, and other publications.
     Meckler's service, MC2 allows the user to review the on-line
     catalogue, submit an electronic publication order, or check the
     list of conferences.  Meckler's newest journal, MeckJournal,
     concentrates on electronic publishing, and is also available on
     line via NICOL. For more information, email
     "meckler@tigger.jvnc.net".

     JvNCnet availability for August is 99.89% and for September is
     99.92%.

     New JvNCnet members, in the previous thirty days are:

     *National Council of Technological and Scientific
     Research (CONOCIT),  Caracas, Venezuela
     *Educational Testing Service
     *Intelecom
     *United Nations Development Program
     *Star Semiconductor
     *Pennington Systems, Inc.
     *Unix System Laboratories
     *Moodys
     *Osteonics
     *Advanced Media Laboratory of Samsung Electronics

     by Rochelle Hammer <hammer@nisc.jvnc.net>






Westine                                                        [Page 19]

Internet Monthly Report                                   September 1991


LOS NETTOS
----------

     OSPF testing has resumed.

     A Technical Committee meeting has been scheduled for October.

     PacBell has initiated a circuit review at our request to analyze a
     T1 link which has had cronic problems.  PacBell has been very
     responsive to this request so far.

     Walt Prue (Prue@ISI.EDU)

MERIT/MICHNET
-------------

     August/Sept 1991

     Northwestern Michigan College became a Merit affiliate in July. NMC
     enrolls approximately 4,400 students at its Traverse City and
     Cadillac campuses. In 1951 NMC was the first community college in
     Michigan to be founded under the Community College Act. NMC is very
     proud of its vocational programs which include offerings in 28
     business and health-related disciplines. Installation of their
     network hardware will take place in the fall.

     Upgrades from 56K to T1 are in place for links between Ann Arbor
     and Kalamazoo and between Detroit and Oakland University in
     Rochester, MI.

     Users who access MichNet using dial-up modems or hard-wired
     asynchronous connections can now use the Point-to-Point Protocol
     (PPP) to get direct access to TCP/IP services from a personal
     computer or workstation. This new PPP support is similar to
     MichNet's SLFP (Serial Line Framing Protocol) support which has
     been available for nearly two years. This initial implemetation of
     PPP uses header compression, which allows for faster throughput for
     those using the SLFP protocol.

     PPP Authorization is now available for this service. For more
     information about MichNet's PPP support, see the September, 1991,
     issue of the MichNet News, which is available via anonymous FTP
     from the machine nic.merit.edu.)

     Eric Aupperle and Ellen Hoffman attended the FARNET meeting in Big
     Sky, Montana, representing MichNet and Merit, Inc.





Westine                                                        [Page 20]

Internet Monthly Report                                   September 1991


     Chris Weider attended the first meeting of the Consortium for
     School Networking, reprensenting MichNet.

     Pat McGregor (patmcg@merit.edu)

NEW ENGLAND ACADEMIC AND RESEARCH NETWORK
-----------------------------------------

     NEARnet held a meeting with ANS and MERIT to resolve the problems
     with the instability of the T3 connection. Steps that have been
     taken have had a positive effect on the network. Other procedural
     issues will be addressed and there will be a continual effort to
     resolve these issues.

     by John Rugo <jrugo@nic.near.net>

NNSC, UCAR/BOLT BERANEK and NEWMAN, INC.
----------------------------------------

     The NNSC Staff distributed additions to Chapter 3 of the Internet
     Resource Guide.

     The NNSC began distribution of the 10th issue of the NSF Network
     Newsletter.

     On behalf of the NNSC, John Rugo of BBN spoke to a group of
     researchers at the seventh annual Scientific Computing & Automation
     Conference and Exhibition in Philadelphia yesterday.  Dr. Michael
     Duncan of NRL and John spoke about the Internet, its history,
     technology and use.

     Corinne Carroll <ccarroll@nnsc.nsf.net>

NSF BACKBONE (Merit)
-------------------

            ANSNET/NSFNET Backbone Engineering Report
                      September 30, 1991

            Mark Knopper        Jordan Becker
            Jo Ann Ward         Advanced Network & Services Inc.
            Merit Network Inc.

     Overview

     This report is intended to provide a status report on the
     ANSNET/NSFNET backbone for the month of September.  There are
     actually two physical backbones: the T1 NSFNET and the T3 ANSNET,



Westine                                                        [Page 21]

Internet Monthly Report                                   September 1991


     each of which interconnect to NSF sponsored sites.  Few changes
     have been made on the T1 backbone, while further stabilization is
     taking place on the T3 backbone.  During the period between 5/91-
     9/91 nearly 90% of all T3 backbone infrastructure was changed to
     improve robustness of the network.  The coming months will focus on
     stabilization of the resulting infrastructure with our target being
     to achieve the same or better level of reliability which the T1
     backbone exhibits.  Eventually as reliability of the T3 network
     improves, attaching networks will be moved from primary use of the
     T1 backbone to primary use of the T3 backbone.  When this is
     complete and a T1 backup capability is introduced on the T3
     backbone, the T1 backbone will be turned off.

     Merit is responsible to the NSF for the NSF sponsored network
     attachments to the T1 and T3 backbones.  ANS manages and expands
     the T3 backbone while Merit in partnership with ANS operates and
     provides engineering for the two backbones.

     The month of September included a few new customer site
     installations to the T3 backbone, complete replacement of T3 DSU
     interface cards to prevent the DSU synchronization problem known as
     "grey link", full deployment of new router software that fixes the
     low level "packet loss" problem on the T3 serial line adapters, and
     a change to the way NNSTAT statistics are gathered on the T1
     backbone.  There are still a number of outstanding problems in the
     T3 router that compromise backbone reliability.  In an effort to
     minimize users loss of connectivity resulting fro m this
     unreliability, several actions have been taken to provide
     additional backup connections for some customer sites and for the
     CNSS backbone nodes themselves.

     Traffic Statistics

     Traffic on the T1 infrastructure measured 8.47 billion inbound
     packets during September 1991, an increase over the 7.77 billion
     inbound packets of August.  T3 infrastructure traffic increased
     from 1.93 billion inbound packets in August to 2.00 billion inbound
     packets in September.  At the end of September, 818 networks are
     configured for announcement via the T3 infrastructure of a total
     3389 networks announced on the backbone.

     New Backbone (CNSS) Nodes

     Denver is a new T3 CNSS backbone site.  The Denver CNSS is linked
     to the Seattle CNSS, but is not yet linked to the St. Louis CNSS.
     An additional T1 concentrator router (T1-C) node was installed at
     the Hartford CNSS.




Westine                                                        [Page 22]

Internet Monthly Report                                   September 1991


     New ENSS Sites

     The Suranet site at College Park, MD now has a T3 ENSS connected to
     the T3 backbone at Washington, DC. Boulder has a T3 ENSS connected
     to the Denver CNSS.  Later in the month another T3 ENSS at Salt
     Lake City will be connected to the Denver CNSS. University of
     Washington at Seattle is another T3 connected ENSS site, to the
     Seattle CNSS.

     Note: CNSS is core nodal switching subsystem, and ENSS is external
     nodal switching subsystem. The CNSS's are located within the MCI
     point of presence (POP) locations, and the ENSS's are at the sites
     of the attached NSF sponsored regional networks or other ANS
     customers.  A map of the current T3 backbone network is available
     in postscript format via anonymous FTP to ftp.ans.net (cd pub/info,
     file=t3net.ps).

     New Software Changes/Fixes

     Statistics Collection

     A statistical sampling technique is now employed on the T1 backbone
     rather than using full statistics collection.  This should improve
     the reliability of the statistics without compromising accuracy. A
     similar technique is being developed for the T3 backbone. Currently
     T3 traffic statistics are not being collected until this software
     is deployed.  The traffic statistics that are collected include
     packets & bytes, both in and out of the backbone(s), sorted by
     network number, port number and protocol type.

     Packet Loss

     Users had previously reported TCP application performance
     degradation when using the T3 backbone.  The problem was traced to
     a low level loss of packets (0.1% loss typically). To reduce the
     low level "packet loss" which occurred due to a problem on the T3
     router serial line driver, new firmware and router driver software,
     was installed this month throughout the T3 backbone.  This change
     has been tested by a number of users and it seems to have
     dramatically reduced the observed packet loss.

     T960 T1/Ethernet Adapter

     The new software deployed on the T3 backbone includes bug fixes for
     the T960 ethernet and T1 interface adapters on the T3 nodes to
     address a problem involving route caching which occured
     infrequently.




Westine                                                        [Page 23]

Internet Monthly Report                                   September 1991


     T3 Network Problems Remaining

     T3 386 Adapter Black Link Problem

     The most severe remaining problem on the T3 backbone is the known
     as the "black link" symptom.  The symptom of this problem is a hung
     T3 interface which in some cases can completely hang the T3 router,
     and cannot be reset without rebooting the T3 router. There are
     three known problems which result in this symptom involving the T3
     386 adapters and the T3 driver software.

     As of the end of September, we have identified several of the
     causes of this problem and are well along in testing a new driver
     revision which should avoid these symptoms. We expect to have this
     new driver installed throughout the network by the end of October,
     which we expect will eliminate the problems caused by the black
     link condition.

     Network Unreachable Messages

     When the IS-IS interior gateway protocol for the T3 backbone cycles
     upon a link state change, there is a period of time during which
     some packets may be dropped. Currently an ICMP network unreachable
     packet is generated when this happens.  It has been brought to our
     attention that many implementations of TCP/telnet will close the
     connection if they receive one of these packets. While this is not
     proper behavior for telnet and should be addressed separately, we
     are working on providing a software change so that backbone CNSS
     routers will no longer send network unreachable packets. ENSS's
     will continue to send them outside the T3 backbone.  Because the
     ENSS nodes maintain Internal BGP sessions which stay up during
     routing changes, ICMP network unreachable messages will only be
     sent to hosts when there is a real outage which results in an
     unreachable condition.  We are currently measuring the convergence
     time for the backbone's IGP routing protocol to determine whether
     we are correctly generating the ICMP packets as part of this
     investigation.

     T960 Ethernet Packet Delays

     Occasionally (e.g. once a week) a T1/T3 ENSS ethernet interface
     will be reported to have gone into a "sticky" condition where
     packets are held for an inordinate amount of time. Packets aren't
     dropped as seen by the ping program but the delay times are shown
     to be excessive. The latest software changes do not address this
     problem, although there is instrumentation installed to diagnose
     the problem further.  The condition can be be fixed by a manual
     reset of the ethernet controller by the NOC, and a script has been



Westine                                                        [Page 24]

Internet Monthly Report                                   September 1991


     developed which will automatically reset the ethernet controller
     thereby minimizing the effect of this problem prior to a real fix
     becoming available.  We have also observed that the T960 adapters
     may occasionally hang after a reboot which should also be addressed
     by the automatic reset.  Both of these problems occur infrequently
     and should be addressed in the upcoming software changes.

     Congestion on T1/T3 Interconnect Gateways

     Interconnect points between the T1 and T3 backbones are located at
     Ann Arbor and San Diego. It is still the case that only one
     interconnect can be active at a time due to problems with the
     routing software.  We have seen congestion on the ethernet
     interface on the T1 backbone node at Ann Arbor that has caused
     packet loss on the interconnect gateway.  Work has begun to
     establish an additional interconnect point at Houston.  Also new
     software available in early October will allow both the Ann Arbor
     and Houston gateways to share the load for T1/T3 interconnect
     traffic. San Diego will be a "cold" standby in this configuration.
     We expect to deploy these changes in phases, the first of which
     will be to operate the San Diego interconnect in a "hot standby"
     mode, where if the Ann Arbor interconnect goes out of service the
     San Diego interconnect will take over automatically.

     RS/6000 Router Manual Reboot Required

     It is currently the case that when a CNSS or ENSS crashes for any
     reason, the machine's debugger is entered and the machine must be
     rebooted from the console.  This was useful in the early days of
     the T3 backbone deployment in order that debugging information
     could be obtained to assist developers.  However we have collected
     lots of information and very little new debugging information is
     currently gathered during these crashes.  Therefore we are
     installing a change to the router software to minimize the downtime
     after a router crash by automatically taking a core dump and
     rebooting the router.  This change is being tested and should be
     deployed during the 2nd week of October.

     Improvements to Backup Connectivity for the T3 Backbone

     Most of the NSF sponsored midlevel networks attached to the T3
     backbone have backup connections to the T1 backbone. One problem we
     have struggled with during backup transitions is that the EGP
     protocol takes a long time (several minutes) to switch routing over
     from one network to the other.  Using BGP as an exterior routing
     protocol significantly reduces the transition time between the T1
     and T3 networks during backup transitions.  NEARnet is particularly
     interested in this, and has made progress in working with Cisco to



Westine                                                        [Page 25]

Internet Monthly Report                                   September 1991


     improve the use of BGP support in their routers.  We are also
     adding a second backup connection to the T1 backbone for NEARnet,
     which should improve performance when backup to the T3 backbone is
     required.

     T3 Core Backbone Redundancy - "Safety Net"

     Recognizing that the most probable cause of failure in the T3
     backbone are the T3 386 interface adapters, we have taken action to
     engineer additional redundancy around these adapters.  In October
     we will install a set of T1 point-to-point links interconnecting
     connecting the T3 backbone CNSS nodes which run in parallel with
     existing T3 point-to-point links.  This represents an interim
     solution to improve reliablity while we continue to deploy the
     other engineering changes described here.  This "safety net"
     includes 12 T1 point-to-point links and will be used in a "ring"
     topology connecting the T3 CNSS's at all of the MCI POP sites
     together.  We expect that this will avoid the isolation of ENSS
     sites and partitioning of the T3 backbone if multiple T3 point-to-
     point links go down.

     Remaining Installations to Complete Phase II of T3 Deployment

     Phase II of the T3 backbone deployment should be complete in early
     October.  Four T3 ENSS sites remain to be interconnected to the T3
     backbone: Boulder, Princeton, Salt Lake City, and Lincoln. The
     Denver CNSS will be linked to the St. Louis CNSS to complete the
     planned connectivity of the CNSS backbone. The Boulder site ENSS
     will connect Westnet, NCAR, Los Alamos, and several Mexican
     networks. The Princeton site ENSS will connect JVNCnet, NEARnet,
     CA*Net, and a regional network in Singapore. The Salt Lake City
     site ENSS will also connect to Westnet.

     Phase III T3 Network Planning

     Following stabilization of the Phase II T3 network, we will follow
     with several changes now in the planning stage.  Phase III of the
     T3 network will consist of a technology upgrade of the T3 serial
     interface adapters in the RS/6000s from the T3 386 adapters to
     "RS960" adapters.  This will improve both network performance and
     reliability.  The T3 CNSS multi-router architecture will be
     redesigned around this new interface adapter technology.  While
     some backbone topology changes are under consideration, the final
     phase III topology is not expected to introduce any significant
     changes in backbone topology.  ENSS backup services required to
     reduce dependency on the T1 network are being planned.  Improved
     DS3 transmission facility monitoring using the ANSI T1.107A "c-bit
     parity" standard will be supported.



Westine                                                        [Page 26]

Internet Monthly Report                                   September 1991


     Software changes in the T3 network are expected to include support
     for OSI CLNP switching services as well as migration from the
     RCP_Route daemon to the Gateway Daemon (gated), which will support
     a number of new routing technologies for both IP and OSI CLNP. Note
     that gated uses the Dual IS-IS protocol for IP and CLNP. All of
     these plans are still being developed and are contingent upon the
     progress made on stabilizing the phase II T3 network.

     Merit staff conference and meeting activities

     Jessica Yu of Merit Internet Engineering attended the September
     FEPG meeting in San Diego, CA. Susan Hares was the Internet
     Engineering representative to the X3S3.3 Task Group which convened
     in Boulder, CO.

     Merit Network, Inc. will sponsor "Making Your NSFNET Connection
     Count" at College Park, Maryland, November 11-12.  This informative
     seminar, intended for beginning and intermediate network users,
     will focus on issues of interest to educators, librarians, campus
     computing leaders, information systems and networking
     administrators, educational liaisons, and others. For information,
     contact seminar@merit.edu or phone 1-800-66-MERIT.

     Mark Knopper (mak@merit.edu)

PITTSBURGH SUPER COMPUTING CENTER
---------------------------------

     The PSC has completed the first step of our High School
     Supercomputing Outreach program.  This involved outfitting ten
     regional high schools each witha 3D DecStation 5000, all generously
     donated by Digital Equipment Corporation.  The ten schools were
     chosen from several on the merit of a research proposal each school
     submitted to the PSC.  We are using V.32 modems connected to a
     dial-in router at our networking hub, located at Carnegie Mellon
     University, asa cost effective means of TCP/IP connectivity. The
     system uses SLIP/PPP software that was modified here at the PSC,
     that now enables 9.6 bps.  We plan to evaluate V.32 bis and V.42
     bis modems using data compression techniques to push that figure up
     to 38.4 bps.  The schools currently have connectivity to the PSC,
     PREPnet and full Internet access when logged into our front end
     mainframes.

     Gene Hastings of our communications group attended and participated
     in last months FARNET/NSFNET workshop on inter-regional
     connectivity held in Big Sky, MT.

     New network connections for the month include: Lebanon Valley



Westine                                                        [Page 27]

Internet Monthly Report                                   September 1991


     College, WEA Manufacturing, Hershey Medical Center, Gettysburg
     College, Carnegie Group, and Juniata College.

     by Stephen Cunningham <cunningham@b.psc.edu>

PREPNET
-------

     During September, Franklin and Marshall College, Children's
     Hospital, and Lincoln University joined PREPnet.  Franklin and
     Marshall College will be connected to the Harrisburg hub at 56Kbps,
     Children's Hospital will be connected via the University of
     Pittsburgh, and Lincoln University will be connected to the
     Philadelphia hub at 56Kbps.

     PREPnet has been investing using the Telebit NetBlazer to provide
     entry level services.

     PREPnet NIC (prepnet+@andrew.cmu.edu)

SAIC
----
     SAIC Activities for September

     The first draft for the gated implementation design document was
     completed.  There are still some design issues that need to be
     resolved before producing the final document.

     Chi Chu Chung has begun modifying the original IDPR kernel module
     to correct some bugs and improve efficiency.  It is expected that a
     radix based route lookup function similar to that in BSD 4.3 Reno
     will replace the existing fixed size table routines.  This is also
     being chosen for compatibility with the new BSD route table.  It is
     expected that the new route table from BSD may have the
     functionality required for IDPR that it could be used directly.  In
     the mean time, IDPR will have to use a separate route lookup.

     An architecture for using the domain-name system for resolution of
     IP addresses to Administrative Domains IDs is in an embryionic
     form.  It is expected that an RFC will be forthcoming describing
     the additions to the DNS.

     Planned activies:

     Testing of the GATED implementation continues.  Configuration is
     very difficult and hinders progress.  The new configuration parser
     should alleviate some of this.




Westine                                                        [Page 28]

Internet Monthly Report                                   September 1991


     The kernel work is extensive and will continue through November.

     Woody Woodburn (woody@sparta.com)


SRI NIC
-------

     The cumulative total of all IP numbers assigned at the end of
     September was 36,988.  See the table below for a breakdown of these
     assignments by class.

     The cumulative total of assigned Autonomous System Numbers (ASNs)
     was 1,384, and the cumulative total number of domains registered
     was 3,450.  This includes the root domain, 77 top-level domains,
     3,304 second-level domains, and 67 third-level MIL subdomains.

                     Cumulative IP Network Statistics

     Month/Year                       Class

                             A       B       C           Total

     Sep. 1991               47      6,239   30,702      36,988
     Aug. 1991               45      5,908   28,977      34,930
     Jul. 1991               43      5,799   25,364      31,206
     Jun. 1991               43      5,654   24,449      30,146
     May. 1991               43      5,026   24,797      29,866
     Apr. 1991               43      4,977   25,897      30,917
     Mar. 1991               41      4,520   24,572      29,133
     Feb. 1991               39      4,347   22,552      26,938
     Jan. 1991               39      4,246   21,731      26,016
     Dec. 1990               36      4,305   21,811      26,152
     Nov. 1990               35      4,198   21,149      25,382

     As of 26 September, SRI International ceased its provision of
     registration services to the Internet.  We've devoted many exciting
     and enjoyable years to serving the Internet community, but the time
     has come to say farewell.  Thanks for your encouragement and moral
     support over the years--we shall miss you all.

     Mary Stahl (stahl@nisc.sri.com)

UCL
----

     Ian Wakeman attended SIGCOM 91. There was an Operations Management
     Videoconference about the UK-US Fat Pipe. There was a quick



Westine                                                        [Page 29]

Internet Monthly Report                                   September 1991


     demonstration of video from BBN to visiting VIPs.

     We have now demonstrated UDP based voice from UCL to Lancaster
     University and an X based Video to Cambridge University (based on
     video capture from the Archimedes workstation).  Voice is perfectly
     usable; video is 128 pixel square, monochrome, 5 frame per second,
     all in software. We are still awaiting BT CODECs delivery. (There
     are now 17 UK Universities reachable by IP at 2Mbps, although
     progress in their appearance in the DNS is a little complex).

     James Cowan has completed a Generic MIB Browser for our OSIMIS
     software, based on the X Windows Interviews C++ library and our
     generic management software. Some non-ISO Managed Objects include
     TCP connections and Unix Processes and Users. A paper on this and
     follow on work is in progress.  An SNMP version would be relatively
     simple. [The size of a binary linked with interviews, X, CMIS and
     ISODE does not really bear thinking about:-].

     John Crowcroft (j.crowcroft@CS.UCL.AC.UK)

UNIVERSITY OF DELAWARE
----------------------


     1.   A second T1 circuit has been installed from the UDel campus to
          the NSFNET College Park node. This circuit normally carries
          only traffic to and from our 128.4 research net, but can carry
          the full campus load should the primary T1 circuit fail. The
          new arrangement should improve timekeeping accuracy for those
          peers chiming the UDel NTP time servers.

     2.   Rick Anthony completed and tested a demodulator for the
          Canadian time-service station CHU. Used with a junkbox
          shortwave receiver, this quite inexpensive widget provides
          surprisingly good time to the low milliseconds. Neil Corman
          completed and tested a computer interface for a LORAN
          receiver. Work continues on the receiver itself, which should
          yield accuracies comparable to GPS, but cost lots less.

     3.   Ken Monington is working on a rigorous mathematical analysis
          of the adaptive-parameter NTP local-clock model. The goal of
          this effort is to provide fast, reliable time acquisition to
          the regime of a few seconds, down from about a minute in the
          present design. This work is being supported by the US Navy
          SAFENET program.

          Dave Mills (Mills@UDEL.EDU)




Westine                                                        [Page 30]

Internet Monthly Report                                   September 1991


WISCNET
-------

     The DDS circuit between Marquette Univerity and the University of
     Wisconsin - Milwaukee was replaced with a T1 circuit on September
     25.

     Informational papers describing news and white pages service
     alternatives where written and distributed.

     The August '91 issue of 'NSF NETWORK NEWS' contains a description
     of WiscNet and WiscNet sites have been incorporated in the map.

     Michael Dorl (dorl@vms.macc.wisc.edu)





































Westine                                                        [Page 31]

Internet Monthly Report                                   September 1991


DIRECTORY SERVICES
------------------

This section of the Internet Monthly is devoted to efforts working to
develop directory services that are for, or effect, the Internet.  We
would like to encourage any organization with news about directory
service activities to use this forum for publishing brief monthly news
items.  The current reporters list includes:

        o IETF OSIDS Working Group [X]
        o IETF DISI Working Group [X]
        o Field Operational X.500 Project
           - ISI
           - Merit
           - PSI
           - SRI
        o National Institute of Standards and Technology [X]
        o North American Directory Forum [X]
        o OSI Implementor's Workshop [X]
        o PARADISE Project [X]
        o PSI DARPA/NNT X.500 Project
        o PSI WHITE PAGES PILOT
        o Registration Authority Committee (ANSI USA RAC) [X]
        o U.S. Department of State, Study Group D,
            MHS Management Domain subcommittee (SG-D MHS-MD)

                [X] indicates no report this month

Tom Tignor  (tpt2@isi.edu)
DS Report Coordinator

FOX -- FIELD OPERATIONAL X.500 PROJECT
--------------------------------------

     The FOX project is a DARPA and NSF sponsored effort to provide a
     basis for operational X.500 deployment in the NREN/Internet.  This
     work is being carried out at Merit, NSYERNet/PSI, SRI and ISI.  ISI
     is the main contractor and responsible for project oversight.

     Three members of the FOX group along with Steve Hardcastle-Kille
     will participate in a panel session at Interop about efforts to
     bring X.500 into the Internet community.  In addition,
     demonstrations and information about FOX efforts will be available
     in the display area.







Westine                                                        [Page 32]

Internet Monthly Report                                   September 1991


     ISI
     ---

        ISI organized a meeting of the FOX participants who will be at
        Interop.  Tom Tignor has joined the ISI FOX project team.  He
        has been reviewing various X.500 documents, and will be
        coordinating their review by the full FOX group.

        Steve Hotz (hotz@isi.edu)

     MERIT
     -----

        1. Sue Hares of Merit is managing the OSI booth at Interop '91.
           Along with FTAM, X-Windows, X.400 and Virtual Terminal, one
           of the applications to be demonstrated there will be X.500.
           CLNP will be used at the network layer, and the demonstration
           will include connectivity beyond the show floor over NSFNET
           and international networks.

           CDC is sponsoring the @c=US@o=Interop portion of the DIT.
           Each of 12 vendors (or so) will have organizational unit
           entries under this entry. Merit is also adding the Site
           Contacts directory at @c=us@o=Interop@ou=Site Contacts.

           Merit is also working with IBM to demonstrate directory
           user agents in the NSFNET section of their Interop booth.

           As part of this effort, the host FOX.MERIT.EDU is now running
           SunNet OSI 7.0 which allows X.500 over TP4/CLNP.

        2. Merit is participating in the activities to extend the FOX
           contract for an extra two years. Merit's work for this
           extension  will be to finalize and create schema for network
           infrastructure and information services objects, populate and
           update the directory with these objects, and create user
           interface tools to make them useful.
           Mark Knopper (mak@merit.edu)

     PSI
     ---

        The program to automatically load RFC information into X.500 was
        modified to include RFC numbers as a search key so as to allow
        the "x5ftp" program to search by RFC numbers, in addition to
        other existing search keys.

        In preparation for alignment of the White Pages Pilot Project



Westine                                                        [Page 33]

Internet Monthly Report                                   September 1991


        with the NADF naming scheme, the "usconfig" program was written.
        The "usconfig" program performs the same function as the
        existing "dsaconfig" program, except that it has knowledge of
        the NADF Naming recommendations, and produces configurations
        specific to the U.S.

        Wengyik Yeong (yeongw@psi.com)

     SRI
     ----

        SRI provided further input to the NIST DSSIG (by fax) as they
        met in September on postalAddress length constraints.  The input
        was gathered based on experience converting the WHOIS database
        to X.500 and problems that were found due to postalAddress
        length constraints.  Toward the end of the month, we worked with
        a DSSIG member, Russ Wright (LBL) to gather more detailed
        information on failure percentages for line lengths ranging
        between 31 and 50 characters.

        We received and responded to 11 queries regarding the
        availability of "A Catalog of Available X.500 Implementations"
        (Internet-Draft document draft-ietf-disi-catalog-00.txt).

        Ruth Lang (rlang@nisc.sri.com)

PSI DARPA/NNT X.500 Project
---------------------------

     A new draft on the naming of DSAs, now released as the Internet
     Draft draft-ietf-osids-dsanaming-01.txt was reviewed, and comments
     sent to the author.

     The manual "PSI White Pages Project: Administrator's Guide" was
     updated to reflect the upgrade to ISODE 7.0, and the upcoming
     transition to the NADF's recommendations on naming.

     Wengyik Yeong (yeongw@psi.com)

PSI WHITE PAGES PILOT PROJECT
-----------------------------

     The "Fruit Bat" DSA was moved to a more reliable machine to
     increase general project reliability. This DSA currently provides
     updates of the (root) EDB to all the DSAs in the White Pages Pilot
     Project.

     In preparation for alignment of the White Pages Pilot Project with



Westine                                                        [Page 34]

Internet Monthly Report                                   September 1991


     the NADF naming scheme, the experimental information that was used
     to test the NADF naming scheme in its early stages was taken out of
     the U.S. portion of the DIT.

     New organizations added to the pilot this past month are:

             Dover Beach Consulting, Inc.

     Wengyik Yeong (yeongw@psi.com)

SG-D MHS-MD
-----------

     The SG-D MHS-MD Subcommittee met at the US Dept of State on
     September 17-18 to progress the proposal it is developing for
     registration of MHS-MD names in c=US.  The meeting was chaired by
     Richard Jesmajian of ATT.

     The proposal (at this point) tentatively involves a plan to use
     ANSI c=US registered names as c=US MHS-MD names, with the added
     restriction that they must meet the standard requirements for any
     X.400 ADMD or PRMD name.  At this meeting, after long and arduous
     elliptical discussions, it was agreed that the proposal should
     include a goal for all PRMD names in c=US to become unique in c=US,
     in spite of the fact that some service providers are currently
     under contract with certain customers to "specifically not disclose
     their chosen PRMD Name to anyone."  This non-disclosure contract
     situation presents an interesting and frustrating conundrum for
     efforts to enable a c=US National MTS Backbone interconnection
     plan.

     It was also agreed to include in the plan a scheme to allow "MHS-MD
     Naming (Sub)Authorities to use the "Constructive Syntax" developed
     last year by the NIST OIW X.400 SIG.  It was noted that the US
     Government (GSA) is currently using this constructive syntax
     coupled with its ANSI Registered Organizational Name (GOV) to form
     PRMD Names such as GOV+DOE, etc.  It is understood that many
     government organizations are not happy with this state of affairs,
     and there is serious oposition to this schem, mostly based on
     esthetic considerations such as "They are ugly!".

     During the meeting, it was frequently pointed out by the Chair that
     the MHS-MD subcommittee is only empowered to develop a
     recommendation to SG-D, which will review it and possibly modify it
     before recommending it to the US CCITT National Committee, which
     has the power to adopt it.  It was also pointed out (several times)
     that it is possible that the MHS-MD proposal might be rejected, and
     that SG-D or the US CCITT National Committee might adopt some other



Westine                                                        [Page 35]

Internet Monthly Report                                   September 1991


     plan, altogether.

     For example, it was suggested (several times) that the US Dept of
     State just might dump the whole MHS-MD plan in favor of asking one
     of the prominent service providers (ATT came to mind) who are
     thought to be very good at registering names and numbers to just do
     it on behalf of c=US.  No criteria for this possibility were ever
     provided by anyone.

     Another issue discussed was that of joint administration of the new
     { joint-iso-ccitt(2) country(?) } name tree adopted by ISO and
     CCITT to serve as the Alphanumeric & Numeric name tree for use by
     X.500, and which would become the c=US name tree from which MHS-MD
     plans to draw its MHS-MD names.  It was agreed that SG-D should
     negotiate with ANSI with regard to joint administration of name
     registration in this new joint arc.  A joint meeting of the MHS-MD
     and ANSI USA RAC committees is planned for December, mostly likely
     during the planned MHS-MD meeting at the US Dept of State in
     December.

     The next meeting is scheduled for December 5-6 at the US State
     Dept.

     Einar Stefferud (stef@ics.uci.edu)



























Westine                                                        [Page 36]

Internet Monthly Report                                   September 1991


CALENDAR OF EVENTS
------------------

     Readers are requested to send in dates of events that are
     appropriate for this calendar section.

1991 CALENDAR

     Sep 29-Oct 4    5TH SDL (CCITT FDT) FORUM,
                     Rick Reed, GPT Coventry, UK
                     rick_reed@eurokom.ie
     Oct 7-11        INTEROP91, San Jose, Ca
     Oct 7-15        6TH WORLD TELECOM'91 SYMPOSIUM, Geneva
     Oct 8-11        IFIP WORKSHOP ON OPEN DISTRIBUTED
                     PROCESSING -- Contact
                     jdm@fokus.berlin.gmd.dbp.de or
                     heymer@iir-adlershof.adw.dp.dd
     Oct 15-17       4TH INTL. WORKSHOP ON PROTOCOL TEST SYSTEM
                     Leidschendam, Jan Kroon (J_Kroon@pttrnl.nl)
     Nov 18-22       IETF, Santa Fe, MN
                     Megan Davies (mdavies@NRI.RESTON.VA.US
     Nov 19-22       FORTE'91, University of Queensland
                     Ken Parker, Telecom Austrl (k.parker@trl.oz.au)
     Dec 2-5         4TH INT. WORKSHOP ON PETRI NETS AND
                     PERFORMANCE MODELS, Melbourne, Australia
                     Jonathan Billington, Telecom Austrl.
                     (j.billington @ trl.oz.au)
     Dec 2-5         GLOBECOM'91, See IEEE Publications. Phoenic
     Dec 14-18       OIW, NIST, Gaithersburg, MD

1992 CALENDAR

     Jan 13-21       ANSI X3T5
     Jan 20-22       RIPE, Amsterdam
     Jan 28-30       ANSI X3S3.3, Tucson, AZ
     Feb 19-20       RARE WG1, Location unknown
     Feb 20-21       RARE Manager Mtg, Location unknown
     Mar 2-6         ANSI X3T5
     Mar 2-6         CAIA '92  8th IEEE Conference on AI Application
     Mar 3-5         ACM CSC, Kansas City, MO
     Mar 9-13        IEEE802 Plenary, Irvine, CA
     Mar 9-13        OIW, NIST, Gaithersburg, MD
     Mar 16-19       Info Netwrk&DataComm, Espoo, FI
                     Espoo, Helsinki, Finland; Contact: IFIP-TC6
     Mar 16-20       IETF, San Diego, Ca
                     Megan Davies (mdavies@NRI.RESTON.VA.US)
     Mar 18-20       Computers, Freedom & Privacy II,
                     Grand Hyatt Hotel, Washington, DC



Westine                                                        [Page 37]

Internet Monthly Report                                   September 1991


     Mar 25-27       National Net 92, Washington DC
                     Elizabeth Barnhart (barnhart@educom.edu)
     Apr 6-16        CCITT SG VII    Geneva, Switzerland
     Apr 21-23       ANSI X3S3.3, Mountaon View, Ca.
     <Spring>        IETF, San Diego, CA
                     Megan Davies (mdavies@nri.reston.va.us)
     May 4-6         ANSI X3T5
     May 4-8         DECUS '92, Atlanta, GA
     May 4-8         IEEE INFOCOM'92, See IEEE Pub., Florence
     May 12-14       Joint Network Conference 3, Innsbruck, Austria
                     (this is the RARE Networkshop - renamed)
     May 18-25       INTEROP92, Washington, D.C.
                     Dan Lynch (dlynch@interop.com)
     May 19-29       ISO/IEC JTC 1/SC 21, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada
     May 27-29       IFIP WG 6.5 Int'l Conference, Vancouver, Canada
     May ??-??       Third IFIP International Workshop on
                     Protocols for High-Speed Networks, Stockholm
                     Per Gunningberg, per@sics.se
                     Bjorn Pehrson, bjorn@sics.se
                     Stephen Pink, steve@sics.se
     Jun 8-12        OIW, NIST, Gaithersburg, MD
     Jun 10-11       RARE WG1, tentative-Location unknown
     Jun 11-12       RARE COSINE MHS MGR, tentative-Location unknown
     Jun 14-17       ICC-SUPERCOMM'92, Chicago, IL
     Jun 15-19       INET92, Kobe, Japan
                     Jun Murai (jun@wide.ad.jp), KEIO University
                     Elizabeth Barnhart (barnhart@educom.edu)
                     "North America Contact"
     Jun 16-18       ANSI X3S3.3, Minneapolos, MN
     Jun 22-25       PSTV-XII, Orlando
                     Umit Uyar (umit@honet5.att.com)
                     Jerry Linn or Holmdel, NIST
                     linnrj@ECF.NCSL.NIST.GOV
     Jun 14-17       ICC-SUPERCOMM'92, Chicago, See IEEE Publ..
     Jul 6-10        IEEE802 Plenary, Bloomington, MN
     Jul 13-17       ANSI X3T5
     Jul 13-24       ISO/IEC JTC1/SC6, San Diego, CA
     Aug 17-20       SIGCOMM, Baltimore, MD
                     Deepinder Sidhu, UMBC
     Sep 7-11        IFIP World Congress
                     Madrid, Spain;  Contact: IFIP
     Sep 14-18       ANSI X3T5
     Sep 21-25       OIW, NIST, Gaithersburg, MD
     Sep 22-24       ANSI X3S3.3, Boston, MA
     Oct 5-8         FORTE'92, Lannion
                     Roland Groz (groz@lannion.cnet.fr)
                     Michel Diaz (diaz@droopy.laas.fr)
     Oct 26-30       INTEROP92, San Francisco



Westine                                                        [Page 38]

Internet Monthly Report                                   September 1991


                     Dan Lynch (dlynch@interop.com)
     Nov 9-13        ANSI X3T5
     Dec             ANSI X3S3.3, Boulder, CO
     Dec 7-11        DECUS '92, Las Vegas, NV
     Dec 14-18       OIW, NIST, Gaithersburg, MD


1993 CALENDAR

     Mar 8-12        INTEROP93, Wasington, D.C.
                     Dan Lynch (dlynch@interop.com)
     Mar 8-12        OIW, NIST, Gaithersburg, MD
     May 23-26       ICC'92, Geneva, Switzerland
     May-Jun         PSTV-XIII, University of Liege.
                     Contact: Andre Danthine,
     May 23-26       ICC'93, Geneva, See IEEE Publications.
     Jun 7-11        OIW, NIST, Gaithersburg, MD
     Aug             INET93,  San Francisco Bay Area
     Aug             SIGCOMM, San Francisco
     Sep 13-17       OIW, NIST, Gaithersburg, MD
     Sep 20-31       ISO/IEC JTC1/SC6, Seoul, Korea.
     Oct 12-14       Conference on Network Information Processing,
                     Sofia, Bulgaria;  Contact: IFIP-TC6
     Oct 25-29       INTEROP93, San Francisco
                     Dan Lynch (dlynch@interop.com)
     Nov 9-13        IEEE802 Plenary, LaJolla, CA
     Dec 6-10        OIW, NIST, Gaithersburg, MD


1994 CALENDAR

     Apr 18-22       INTEROP94, Washington, D.C.
                     Dan Lynch (dlynch@interop.com)

     Aug 29-Sep 2    IFIP World Congress
                     Hamburg, Germany; Contact: IFIP

     Sep 12-16       INTEROP94, San Francisco
                     Dan Lynch (dlynch@interop.com)

1995 EVENTS

     Sep 18-22       INTEROP95, San Francisco, CA
                     Dan Lynch (dlynch@interop.com)







Westine                                                        [Page 39]
