





~









February 1991


INTERNET MONTHLY REPORTS
------------------------

The purpose of these reports is to communicate to the Internet Research
Group the accomplishments, milestones reached, or problems discovered by
the participating organizations.

     This report is for Internet information purposes only, and is not
     to be quoted in other publications without permission from the
     submitter.

Each organization is expected to submit a 1/2 page report on the first
business day of the month describing the previous month's activities.
These reports should be submitted via network mail to Ann Westine
(Westine@ISI.EDU) or Karen Roubicek (Roubicek@NNSC.NSF.NET).

TABLE OF CONTENTS

  INTERNET ACTIVITIES BOARD

     IAB MESSAGE  . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  3
     INTERNET RESEARCH REPORTS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  4
        AUTONOMOUS NETWORKS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  4
        END-TO-END SERVICES  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  5
     INTERNET ENGINEERING REPORTS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  5










Westine                                                         [Page 1]

Internet Monthly Report                                    February 1991


  Internet Projects

     BARRNET . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  7
     CICNET. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  7
     CORNELL . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  8
     CSUNET. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  9
     ISI . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 10
     LOS NETTOS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 11
     MERIT/UMNET . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 11
     MITRE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 12
     NEW ENGLAND ACADEMIC AND RESEARCH NETWORK . . . . . . . . page 13
     NNSC, UCAR/BOLT BERANEK and NEWMAN, INC., . . . . . . . . page 13
     NSFNET BACKBONE, MERIT. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 14
     NDRE and NTA-RD . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 15
     PREPnet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 15
     SAN DIEGO SUPERCOMPUTER CENTER  . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 16
     SRI . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 16
     UCL . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 17
     UDEL. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 17
     WISCNET . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 18

  FOX Project
     SRI . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 19




























Westine                                                         [Page 2]

Internet Monthly Report                                    February 1991



IAB MESSAGE

     A. DAVE CLARK CITED

        The IAB is pleased to note that IAB member Dave Clark has been
        selected by Federal Computer Week as one of the "Federal 100"
        movers and shakers in the federal government systems area.
        Their citation did not mention Clark's SIGCOMM award last year,
        nor his contribution to the development the Internet
        architecture that led the IAB to informally title him "The
        Internet Architect".  The citation in Federal Computer Week
        [page S17 of the Feb. 25, 1991 issue] reads as follows:

        David D. Clark
        Senior Research Scientist
        Laboratory for Computer Science
        Massachusetts Institute of Technology

        You might say Clark is deep in the loop. Since the early 1970s,
        he has been intimately associated with the design and
        development of the nation's core data communications framework,
        first as a developer of the early ARPA network protocols and
        more recently as chairman of the Internet Activities Board and
        its research task force.

        This year, Clark received national attention for heading the
        National Research Council committee that produced "Computers at
        Risk," a comprehensive study of hazards facing computers and the
        data they contain. The report pointed out that computers have
        becomer more vulnerable because of poor system design,
        accidents, viruses and other attacks. It also noted that the
        evolution of computer networks and the growth of computer
        literacy have added to the risk.

        Clark was one of the developers of token-ring local area
        networks which led to current commercial products and was the
        origin of the IEEE 802.5 standard for token ring networks.  He
        has been associated with MIT's Laboratory for Computer Science
        since receiving his doctorate from MIT in 1973."

     B. UPDATE ON INTERNET REGISTRY AND CONNECTED STATUS

        The policies recommended by the IAB in RFC-1174 ("IAB
        Recommended Policy on Distributing Internet Identifier
        Assignment, and IAB Recommended Policy Change to Internet
        `Connected' Status", August 1990) were approved by the Federal
        Networking Council (FNC).  However, the Defense Communications



Westine                                                         [Page 3]

Internet Monthly Report                                    February 1991


        Agency (DCA), which funds the DDN NIC, was not willing to change
        the registration procedures while a procurement action was in
        progress to select a follow-on contractor.

        Subsequently, NSF agreed to consider for sponsorship any
        networks that wish to be registered under the RFC-1174 rules.
        NSF cannot provide a "blanket" sponsorship, since each instance
        has to be validated against existing US government policies.
        Once the procurement action has been consummated, the
        implementation of RFC-1174 will be somewhat easier, since the
        global Internet registry functions now performed by the DDN NIC
        will have been separated from the DDN registration functions to
        be performed under the new contract.  The details of
        implementation are still being worked out, but the IAB is
        confident that the matter is well in hand.

        At the January IAB meeting, the IAB reaffirmed that the RFC-1174
        registration process is necessary for global registration, to
        support an increasingly international Internet.

     C. STANDARDS ACTIONS

        The IAB has taken the following actions on standards since
        January 1991.  The actions are in accordance with
        recommendations made by the IESG.

        * OSI Internet Management MIB II to Proposed Standard.

        * IP over SMDS to Proposed Standard

        * IP over ARCNET to Proposed Standard

     Bob Braden (Braden@ISI.EDU)

INTERNET RESEARCH REPORTS
-------------------------

     AUTONOMOUS NETWORKS
     -------------------

        Several members of the RG (Cocchi, Estrin, Shenker, and Zhang)
        have been working on a paper related to the issue of priority
        pricing in multiple-service internets. Send mail to
        estrin@usc.edu if you are interested.







Westine                                                         [Page 4]

Internet Monthly Report                                    February 1991


        I plan to organize a videconference meeting for May to discuss
        open issues in inter-domain routing and pricing. If you are
        interested in these or other related issues, please contact
        estrin@usc.edu.

        Deborah Estrin (Estrin@USC.EDU)

     END-TO-END SERVICES
     -------------------

        No progress to report.

        Bob Braden (Braden@ISI.EDU)

INTERNET ENGINEERING REPORTS
----------------------------

     IETF Report for February 1991

     1) The IETF will be meeting at Washington University in St. Louis
     on March 11-15.  The meeting will be hosted by Gurudatta Parulkar.
     A detailed report on the activities at the St. Louis meeting from
     the IETF Area Directors will be provided next month.

     2) Status Report on IETF Working Group activities.

     The report below is for February 1991.  There is always a great
     deal of activity right before an IETF.  However, activity for the
     first week of March is not included below.

     Next month, as part of the report on the St. Louis meeting, we will
     give a cumulative report for the period from the Boulder IETF
     meeting (Dec 1990) through the St. Louis IETF meeting (March 11-15,
     1991).

      -- 2 New working groups formed this period

          X.400 Operations (x400ops)
          Directory Information Services Infrastructure (disi)

      -- 3 Internet-Drafts were installed this month
         (Revised draft (o), New Draft (+) )

         (bridge)   o Definitions of Managed Objects for Bridges
                      <draft-ietf-bridge-definitions-00.txt>
         (osids)    + X.500 and Domains
                      <draft-ucl-kille-x500domains-02.txt, ps>




Westine                                                         [Page 5]

Internet Monthly Report                                    February 1991


         (osinsap)  + OSI NSAP Address Format For Use In The Internet
                      <draft-ietf-osinsap-format-01.txt, .ps>

      -- RFC's Produced

         RFC1206    (uswg) FYI on Questions and Answers - Answers to
                    Commonly asked "New Internet User" Questions

     Phill Gross (pgross@NRI.RESTON.VA.US)










































Westine                                                         [Page 6]

Internet Monthly Report                                    February 1991


INTERNET PROJECTS
-----------------

BARRNET
-------

     Two new 56 kbps connections and one dial-in connection were added
     in February, bringing the total number of connected members to
     seventy-six.

     An initial cutover to the use of the new T3 facilities and NSS was
     made in February, but had to be reversed due to bugs in the newest
     release of the software for the cisco routers in BARRNet's core.
     The bug was causing the system to fail to route traffic over the
     previously existing T1 circuits and NSS when the T3 system failed.

     BARRNet's Administrative Committee approved the addition of a new
     hub site in the South Bay area, probably to be located at Santa
     Clara University.  This hub, to be implemented in the next 2-3
     months, will initially be connected to Stanford University only,
     but will eventually become part of a separate South Bay loop
     providing redundant T1 connectivity to all sites connected to the
     hub.

     by Paul Baer <baer@jessica.stanford.edu>

CICNET
-------

     The transition to the new CICNet NOC at Ohio State University was
     completed on Feb. 14th.  As part of the operating agreement with
     AT&T and OSU we also began received monthly network traffic and
     performance reports.  These reports, which are under development by
     personnel at AT&T Bell Labs, are providing CICNet with detailed
     analysis of network traffic and performance issues.

     CICNet held a meeting of its Technical Board on Jan. 31 and Feb. 1.
     in Orlando, Florida.  The meeting was hosted by AT&T and featured a
     tour of the AT&T internal network NOC and presentations by AT&T
     personnel on a variety of technical issues.

     During February Interim Executive Director John Hankins visited
     Minneapolis and made presentations to groups from the Minnesota
     Supercomputer Center, the University of Minnesota, and MRNet.

     Loyola University Chicago became a member of CICNet during
     February.




Westine                                                         [Page 7]

Internet Monthly Report                                    February 1991


     CICNet has finalized a consulting agreement with ANS. The
     agreement, which runs for three months and began on Jan. 1, 1991,
     specifies that ANS will provide consulting to CICNet, primarily, in
     the areas of general management and strategic planning. Pending
     evaluation by the CICNet Board and ANS, the agreement may be
     extended beyond the initial three month period.

     by John Hankins (hankins@cic.net)


CORNELL
-------

     International Connections

     Equipment has been ordered for the new lines to NORDUNET and INRIA.
     The line to NORDUNET should be in on March 11th; the line to INRIA
     should be in on about April 8th.  We are currently working out
     routing and operations agreements.

     Wide-Area Multicasting

     At the March IETF we will be presenting our designs for extensions
     to OSPF and BGP to route multicast packets over the Internet.  This
     will be done in the Working Groups for those protocols.  For OSPF
     we are presenting one solution; for BGP there are several with
     increasing capabilities for administrative control but also with
     increasing overhead.

     Gatedaemon Project

     Work was done to support variable length subnet masks, including
     updating the core routing table to properly handle netmasks
     supplied with route.  The routing protocols were updated to provide
     netmasks when adding routes.  Much of this code was generalized so
     it will work with other protocols, but a lot of it is still IP
     specific especially when applying netmasks.

     Much research into radix tree based routing tables needs to be
     done.  The BSD 4.3 Reno reduced radix tree is one option as is the
     Patricia work done at Network Systems.  This recent work will make
     it easier to support whichever method is used.

     Extensive testing (although only in the RIP/EGP environments) was
     done of the work done during the past few months.  This has
     required cleanup and rewrite of some features, such as redirect
     processing and the kernel interface to fix unintended features
     (i.e. bugs).  A lot of the more recent work is not yet tested.



Westine                                                         [Page 8]

Internet Monthly Report                                    February 1991


     Constant contact has been maintained with Dennis Ferguson at the
     University of Toronto, who has modified the gated BGP v1 to improve
     performance and support BGP v2 and v3.  The intent is to merge this
     code into the current source as soon as it is available.  Dennis
     claims to be testing his work right now.

     Scott Brim  (swb@chumley.tn.cornell.edu) and Jeff Honig
     (Honig@chumley.tn.cornell.edu)

CSUNET (The California State University Network)
------

     We just completed installation of an additional (CSUNET's second)
     path to BARRnet via a T-1 span from San Francisco State University
     to Stanford University.  This brings the total number of links to
     the Internet to four (two T-1 links in Southern California via
     CERFNET and two T-1 links in Northern California via BARRnet).

     CSUNET is continuing engineering work for the routing paths thru
     CSUNET to utilize the new T-1 links across the CSUNET backbone, the
     DWR (The California Department of Water Resources) aqueduct T-1
     fiber path (CALiNET), and the four Internet paths.  This is an on-
     going project with BARRnet and CERFnet.

     Using the Telenet commercial network to CSUNET X.25, BESTNET
     (Argentina, South America) is now able to gain password protected
     TCP/IP access to the Internet.

     During this and the next few months, CSUNET Access Ports (CAP) are
     being upgraded by Network Operations to provide more reliable
     student/faculty/staff asynchronous dialup access (up to 9600b/s) to
     CSUNET X.25 and IP hosts via X.25 PADs.  CAP is available for use
     by CSU students and faculty/staff at all of the twenty CSU
     campuses.

     Upgrades to CSUNET this month include a new AGS+ at CSU Fullerton
     and San Francisco State University.  CSU Fullerton now is utilizing
     the first backbone "ring" T-1 between the Fullerton campus and the
     Network Operations Center in Los Alamitos, CA (SWRL).  X.25, IP,
     DECnet, and AppleTalk are using the new T-1 path.

     In order to facilitate early installation of additional T-1 links
     in the CSUNET backbone "ring", we are looking at using interim
     equipment.

     Mike Marcinkevicz (mike_marcinkevicz@qmbridge.CalState.EDU)





Westine                                                         [Page 9]

Internet Monthly Report                                    February 1991


ISI
---

     INTERNET CONCEPTS PROJECT

     Bob Braden attended a GIGABIT testbed meeting in Washington D.C.,
     February 12-17th.

     Seven RFCs were published this month.

        RFC 1201:  Provan, D., "Transmitting IP Traffic over ARCNET
                   Networks, Novell, Inc., February 1991.

        RFC 1202:  Rose, M., "Directory Assistance Service", PSI, Inc.,
                   February 1991.

        RFC 1203:  Rice, J., "INTERACTIVE MAIL ACCESS PROTOCOL -
                   VERSION 3"
                   Stanford, February 1991.

        RFC 1204:  Yeh, S., and D. Lee, "Message Posting Protocol
                   (MPP)", Netix Communications, Inc., February 1991.

        RFC 1205:  Chmielewski, P., "5250 Telnet Interface", IBM Corp.
                   February 1991.

        RFC 1206:  Malkin, G., "FTP Software, INC., A, Marine (SRI),
                   FYI on Questions and Answers - Answers to Commonly
                   asked "New Internet User" Questions, February 1991.

        RFC 1207:  Malkin, G., (FTP Software, Inc.), A. Marine, (SRI),
                   J. Reynolds (ISI), "FYI on Questions and Answers -
                   Answers to Commonly asked "Experienced Internet
                   User" Questions", February 1991.

     Ann Westine (Westine@ISI.EDU)

     MULTIMEDIA CONFERENCING PROJECT

     On February 27th the SPARCstation implementation of VT, the packet
     voice host, was used in an audio conference over DARTNET connecting
     five sites: ISI, LBL, MIT, PARC, and UDel.  Several additional
     sites were patched in via an AT&T conference call.  The report from
     participants was that the technical aspects of the conference went
     smoothly and sound quality was good.

     For the DARTNET conference, which used no ST-Routers, VT was
     configured to send duplicate data packets to each of the sites



Westine                                                        [Page 10]

Internet Monthly Report                                    February 1991


     participating in the conference.  To support multiple connectees
     without the use of ST-Routers, some additions were made in the
     (partial) ST-I implementation code within VT.  The latest version
     of the VT source code, which includes these changes, as well as
     some bug fixes, is available via anonymous FTP; "vt.120.tar.Z" is
     located on "venera.isi.edu" in the "pub" directory.  We will soon
     make a release of PVP, the packet video host, available through
     anonymous FTP as well.

     The final pieces were put in place to support multisite PictureTel
     conferences with receiver-selected floor control.  Because the
     PictureTel codec can only display one video stream at a time, we
     had already implemented the ability in MMCC, the multimedia
     conference control program, to tell PVP which video stream to
     display as the user directed.  This in itself was not enough.
     Whenever a site switched to a new image, the time for the
     background refresh to reconstruct the image was too long.  We
     therefore have enhanced MMCC to instruct the PictureTel codec to
     refresh its video image as needed.  MMCC also puts the PictureTel
     codec into the correct transmission mode (e.g., multipoint or point
     to point) depending on the number of conference participants.

     Steve Casner visited David Sarnoff Research Center and Sun
     Microsystems to discuss possible collaboration on the next stage in
     packet video -- scaling up to High Definition.  At Sun, a talk was
     presented on "Workstation Conferencing with Packet Video".

     Steve Casner, Annette DeSchon, Dave Walden, Eve Schooler
     (casner@ISI.EDU, deschon@ISI.EDU, djwalden@ISI.EDU,
     schooler@ISI.EDU)

LOS NETTOS
----------

     The T1 line supporting TRW's access location change is due soon.
     Pacific Bell was helpful in giving us an accelerated installation
     schedule.  They are now able to provide B8ZS encoding with no
     charge on new installs.

     Walt Prue (Prue@ISI.EDU)

MERIT/UMNET
-----------

     Just before the end of the month, we sent our grant proposal for
     upgrading our network backbone out to the NSF. As part of our
     progress toward that upgrade, Western Michigan University is now
     linked to our network using IP routers rather than the older PDP-11



Westine                                                        [Page 11]

Internet Monthly Report                                    February 1991


     based network nodes.

     In affiliate news, we have added several new affiliates throughout
     February: Grand Valley State University, Kalamazoo College, and
     ArborText, Inc. In addition, Merit/MichNet has been picked to
     provide network services for FALCON (the Flint Area Library
     Cooperative Online Network).

     Saginaw Valley State University will become a Merit member in
     April, after having been an affiliate for some time. As part of
     this change, we are now able to provide public dialin in the
     Saginaw/Bay City area.

     After extensive work on review and redesign, the MichNet News came
     out the end of February with a new design and revised editorial
     policy concentrating more on applications and accessibility for our
     users.

     In February, Merit/MichNet added a new feature to the Authorization
     Server, its user authentication software. Previously, the
     Authorization Server was used only to authenticate users who wanted
     to telnet out of MichNet. In February, it began to handle charging
     for a MichNet service that doesn't have its own charging
     facilities.  In March, the Authorization Server will also allow
     collect calls from X.25 networks such as SprintNet and Autonet to
     MichNet hosts that don't otherwise accept these calls; only three
     MichNet hosts currently do have the ability to accept collect calls
     from X.25 networks. This will give our users access to all MichNet
     hosts from public dial-in throughout the U.S.

     by Pat McGregor <patmcg@merit.edu>

MITRE Corporation
-----------------

     Walt Lazear participated in the organizational meeting of DCA's
     PSTP working group on Network Management on 6 and 7 February.

     Shari Galitzer, Forrest Palmer, Mike Saintcross, and Walt attended
     demos of Trident Systems X-Touch products.  The touch screen add on
     for PCs and workstations are well integrated into X Windows and
     offer excellent alternatives to mouse driven applications.

     During the month, detailed briefings and demonstrations were
     presented.  Forrest presented SNMP to Government sponsors and MITRE
     personnel.  Shari presented BBN's MMConf to a similar audience.
     Her demonstration included a NOC-to-NOC problem solving scenario
     that integrated the various applications within MMConf.  Walt



Westine                                                        [Page 12]

Internet Monthly Report                                    February 1991


     presented a CALS like documentation mockup using Framemaker as the
     display interface.

     Walt began talks with UUNET (the Alternet provider to MITRE) to
     introduce OSI CLNP routing into their regional.  Extending the OSI
     protocols on the I.E. Testbed to the attached regional will allow
     experiments to reach the rest of the Internet that has implemented
     the OSI infrastructure.  MITRE is also designing its internal OSI
     structure for production usage of GOSIP applications as they become
     available.

     Walt Lazear (lazear@gateway.mitre.org)

NEW ENGLAND ACADEMIC AND RESEARCH NETWORK
-----------------------------------------

     NEARnet has grown to 67 members.

     NEARnet's connection to the T-3 NSFNET backbone has been installed
     at MIT and testing is currently underway.

     Two new services were announced in February.  Technical staff at
     member sites are now provided with a guest account on nic.near.net
     for remote diagnosis of network connectivity problems, and are
     provided with access to a "mail reflector" for testing mailer
     configurations.

     In addition, NEARnet sent the first monthly issue of its online
     bulletin of user information, "NEARnet This Month", in February.
     NTM contains news and information about NEARnet, tips on using the
     network, and a calendar of local and national events of interest.
     To include an event, send your announcement to nearnet-
     us@nic.near.net.

     A document on how to connect Macintosh networks to NEARnet is
     available in the public ftp directory, "docs", on nic.near.net,
     under the filename "macintosh-options.ps".

     by John Rugo <jrugo@nic.near.net>

NNSC, UCAR/BOLT BERANEK and NEWMAN, INC.
----------------------------------------

     The NNSC began the evaluation process for the final version of the
     NNSC Tour of the Internet project.  The NNSC Tour of the Internet
     is a MacIntosh HyperCard 2 (tm) stack.  The NNSC has designed the
     Tour as a general introduction to the Internet.  It contains
     information on the history of the Internet, network etiquette,



Westine                                                        [Page 13]

Internet Monthly Report                                    February 1991


     network applications and resources, as well as a glossary of
     networking terms.  We've designed the Tour for the new network
     user.  We want it to be an easy and enjoyable way to learn about
     the Internet.  We would like to begin distribution of the Tour
     sometime next month.  If you have any questions or would like to
     receive a copy of the Tour send your request to
     <nnsc@nnsc.nsf.net>.

     The NNSC distributed additions to Chapter 2 of the Internet
     Resource Guide.

     The NNSC published the 9th issue of the NSF Network News.

     The NNSC continues to distribute many copies of both the Internet
     Manager's Phonebook and the Internet Resource Guide.  Both of these
     publications are available online.  For additional information
     contact the NNSC at nnsc@nnsc.nsf.net.

     by Corinne Carroll <ccarroll@nnsc.nsf.net>

NSF BACKBONE (Merit)
-------------------

     NSFNET BACKBONE PROJECT (Merit Network, Inc.)

     During February 1991, the inbound packet count for the T1 NSFNET
     backbone reached 6,029,601,114 packets.  This is an increase of
     2.76% over the January total of 5,867,911,410 packets.  A total of
     2417 networks are configured for announcement on the NSFNET
     backbone as of the 28th of February.

     The National Science Foundation announced an addition to Merit
     Network, Inc.'s NSFNET cooperative agreement which will provide
     expansion to T3 service for all of the current NSFNET T1 backbone
     sites not initially scheduled for T3 access.  These upgrades will
     bring T3 service to all 16 sites.  A deployment plan and schedule
     are being developed for the eight additional nodes.

     Work continues on provisioning T3 service.  The T3 Ithaca node was
     connected into the T3 infrastructure on 25 February.  As part of an
     ongoing review of T3 hardware and network monitoring tools, T3
     Technologies and T3 PLUS demonstrated their equipment in Ann Arbor
     at the Merit Network Operations Center.  Representatives of the
     Merit NOC, IBM and MCI met to discuss the continued growth and
     evolution of customer service for T3 hardware and software.

     FDDI interfaces have been deployed at NCSA, Urbana-Champaign; SDSC,
     San Diego; and PSC, Pittsburgh.  Traffic is being actively routed



Westine                                                        [Page 14]

Internet Monthly Report                                    February 1991


     at NCSA, while testing continues at SDSC and PSC.

     Dr. Stephen S. Wolff, Division Director, Division of Networking and
     Communications Research and Infrastructure, at the NSF, visited
     Merit Network, Inc. and the Network Operations Center on February
     19th.  Douglas van Houweling, member of the Merit Network, Inc.
     Board of Directors, spoke at a conference sponsored by the Office
     of Technology Assessment on the 14th of February.  Elise Gerich, of
     the Merit Internet Engineering group, attended the February meeting
     of the FNC-FEPG.

     Merit/NSFNET Information Services will sponsor a two-day seminar in
     Ann Arbor, Michigan, May 20 and 21.  "Making Your NSFNET Connection
     Count" will be an informative seminar focusing on issues of
     interest to campus computing leaders, information systems and
     networking administrators, educational liaisons, librarians, and
     educators who want to learn more about national networking.  The
     keynote address will be given by Paul Evans Peters, Director of the
     Coalition for Networked Information.  Carol Parkhurst, ALA/LITA; Al
     Rogers, The FrEdMail Foundation; Jim Knighton, NASA; John Hankins,
     CICNET; Dana Sitzler, MichNet; and Douglas Van Houweling, the
     University of Michigan are among the scheduled speakers.  For
     further information send an electronic message to seminar@merit.edu
     or telephone 1-800-66-MERIT.

     Jo Ann Ward  (jward@merit.edu)

NDRE and NTA-RD
---------------

     There is nothing to report from NDRE or NTA-RD this month.

     Anton B. Leere (leere@ndre.no)

PREPNET
-------

     No progress to report this month.

     PREPNET NIC (prepnet+@andrew.cmu.edu)











Westine                                                        [Page 15]

Internet Monthly Report                                    February 1991


SAN DIEGO SUPERCOMPUTER CENTER
------------------------------


     The  FDDI concentrator from DEC has arrived - should be in our ring
     by the time you read this.

     UC Irvine has turned off their 9.6 DECnet & BITnet link to the
     Center.  Both ar now carried to SDSC via the tcp/ip T1 link of
     CERFnet; BITnet via the BITnetII code from Joiner Assoc., DECnet
     via MultiNet's DECnet over tcp/ip software.

     During January we gatewayed over 190,000 mail messages through our
     SoftwareTools mail software.

     Paul Love (loveep@sdsc.edu)

SRI
----

     In February, we assigned 922 numbers to new IP networks.  The total
     of all IP numbers assigned is now 26,938.  The total number of
     assigned Autonomous System numbers (ASNs) is now 1,224.

     There are currently a total of 2,449 registered domains which
     includes 60 at the top level, 2,334 at the second level, and 55
     third-level MIL domains.

                             Cumulative Statistics

     Month/Year                       Class

                             A       B       C           Total

     Feb. 1991               39      4,347   22,552      26,938

     Jan. 1991               39      4,246   21,731      26,016

     Dec. 1990               36      4,305   21,811      26,152

     Nov. 1990               35      4,198   21,149      25,382

     Douglas MacGowan (macgown@nisc.sri.com)
     Mary Stahl (stahl@nisc.sri.com)







Westine                                                        [Page 16]

Internet Monthly Report                                    February 1991


UCL
----

     Much of the work this month has been to do with setting up pilot IP
     network services in London & the UK. The London project is based on
     a fiber net used for Analogue Video, but with a 2 Mbps Data Network
     overlayed - Livenet Data Network. The UK IP project is overlayed on
     the current JANET backbone and is called `shoestring'.

     The Advisory Committee to the JNT reported recently as follows:

        "At the 1990 Networkshop the JNT invited members of the JANET
        community to advise it on the response to the requirement within
        the community for significantly improved interworking with
        international Internet networks and for a national service to
        support service using Internet Protocols (IP) across the wide-
        area network.

      ...

        The provision of IP represents a major change in strategy that
        will have consequences in all aspects of networking in the JANET
        community, now and in the future, and the DoDAG will continue to
        study these during 1991.  The OSI transition program is an area
        of particular concern and the group will focus on this in
        collaboration with other JNT advisory and management groups."

     It should be stressed that this is a pilot. A Service will not be
     in place until October.

     One of the motivations for our involvement has been the wish to
     extend Packet Video Conferenceing further into the UK.

     John Crowcroft (j.crowcroft@CS.UCL.AC.UK)

UNIVERSITY OF DELAWARE
----------------------


     1.   The specification and implementation document for the Network
          Time Protocol Version 3 has been updated with minor revisions
          as the result of comments from the implementors. While this
          document was submitted to the standards process some months
          ago, there is no report on its progress. The new version
          provides higher accuracy, reliable error bounds and requires
          reduced network resources.





Westine                                                        [Page 17]

Internet Monthly Report                                    February 1991


     2.   A preliminary report on our Highball high speed, wide-area
          network has been completed. The design is based on a high
          speed crossbar switch and an adaptive, distributed scheduling
          algorithm. Progress to date in this project includes the
          design and testing of a suite of scheduling algorithms,
          construction of a software reservation/scheduling simulator
          and design of a strawman hardware and software implementation.

     3.   Erik Perkins, Mike Davis and Dave Mills participated in a
          DARTnet audioconference using a SPARCstation and ISI packet-
          voice software, which worked wonderfully.

          Dave Mills (Mills@UDEL.EDU)

WISCNET
-------

     All sites are now operational.  Most of the members have completed
     integration with the campus environment and are making service
     available to end users.  Two sites are not currently using their
     connectons.

     The user services committee completed work on model end user
     documentation and it was distributed and made available over the
     net.  A series of meetings of user services and consulting staff
     are planned for March.

     Michael Dorl (dorl@vms.macc.wisc.edu)























Westine                                                        [Page 18]

Internet Monthly Report                                    February 1991


FOX PROJECT
-----------

SRI
---

     SRI hosted the third meeting of the IETF Directory Services (OSI-
     DS) Working Group on February 12-13.  17 members attended this
     productive meeting.

     Because a majority of the FOX participants attended the OSI-DS
     meeting, an informal FOX project meeting was held after its
     conclusion.  In attendance were Marshall Rose (PSI), Mark Knopper
     (Merit), Chris Weider (Merit), Jose Garcia-Luna (SRI), Ruth Lang
     (SRI).

     The main topic discussed was how to offer WHOIS information via
     X.500.  Work has been done toward that end.  PSI has populated
     @o=Internet of the White Pages Pilot with FYI and RFC information.
     Merit has populated @o=Internet with autonomous system and network
     contact information.

     In order to work with (rather than against) existing procedures and
     policies for registration, and advertisement of this information
     via WHOIS, it was decided that SRI would master a portion of the
     DIT to maintain the WHOIS information (possibly,
     @o=Internet@cn=WHOIS).  SRI has begun work on identifying the
     Internet related information that will be transitioned, and on
     defining how that information will be represented in the Directory.

     All were in agreement that the fundamental issue which needs to be
     addressed is one of developing new methods of supporting
     distributed registration and management of Internet information
     among autonomous administrations.

     Ruth Lang (rlang@nisc.sri.com)















Westine                                                        [Page 19]
