





~












August 1991


INTERNET MONTHLY REPORTS
------------------------

The purpose of these reports is to communicate to the Internet Research
Group the accomplishments, milestones reached, or problems discovered by
the participating organizations.

     This report is for Internet information purposes only, and is not
     to be quoted in other publications without permission from the
     submitter.

Each organization is expected to submit a 1/2 page report on the first
business day of the month describing the previous month's activities.
These reports should be submitted via network mail to Ann Westine
(Westine@ISI.EDU) or Karen Roubicek (Roubicek@NNSC.NSF.NET).

Requests to be added or deleted from the Internet Monthly report list
should be sent to "westine@isi.edu".

TABLE OF CONTENTS

  INTERNET ACTIVITIES BOARD

     IAB MESSAGE  . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  3
     INTERNET RESEARCH REPORTS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  3
        AUTONOMOUS NETWORKS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  3
        END-TO-END SERVICES  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  3
     INTERNET ENGINEERING REPORTS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  3







Westine                                                         [Page 1]

Internet Monthly Report                                      August 1991


  Internet Projects

     BARRNET . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  4
     BOLT BERANEK AND NEWMAN, INC.,  . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  4
     CERFNET . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  5
     CICNET. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  6
     CIX (COMMERCIAL INTERNET EXCHANGE). . . . . . . . . . . . page  6
     CREN  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  7
     FARNET (FEDERATION OF AMERICAN RESEARCH NETWORKS) . . . . page  8
     ISI . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  8
     JVNCNET, NORTH EAST RESEARCH REGIONAL NETWORK . . . . . . page 10
     LOS NETTOS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 10
     NNSC, UCAR/BOLT BERANEK and NEWMAN, INC . . . . . . . . . page 11
     NEARNET . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 12
     PREPnet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 12
     PSI . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 13
     SAIC. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 13
     SAN DIEGO SUPERCOMPUTER CENTER  . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 14
     SRI . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 15
     UCL . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 16
     UDEL. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 17

  DIRECTORY SERVICES ACTIVITIES

     DIRECTORY SERVICES MESSAGE  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 18
     FOX - FIELD OPERATIONAL X.500 PROJECT . . . . . . . . . . page 18
        ISI. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 18
        MERIT. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 19
        PSI. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 19
        SRI. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 19
     NORTH AMERICAN DIRECTORY FORUM. . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 20
     PARADISE PROJECT. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 20
     PSI DARPA/NNT X.500 PROJECT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 21
     PSI WHITE PAGES PILOT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 21
     REGISTRATION AUTHORITY COMMITTEE (ANSI USA RAC) . . . . . page 22
     SG-D MHS-MD . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 26
     ANSI ASC X3T5.4 Directory Ad Hoc Group. . . . . . . . . . page 26

  CALENDAR OF EVENTS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 27












Westine                                                         [Page 2]

Internet Monthly Report                                      August 1991



IAB MESSAGE

     Internet Society:

     Preparations for the first Internet Society publications are moving
     ahead. A newsletter is scheduled to be released in January and the
     first journal issue we hope to have ready at the time of the June
     15-19, 1992 INET92 meeting in Kobe, Japan. People who have either
     patiently waited for responses on registrations or who have asked
     when they will hear something should be getting membership notices
     (and invoices in the event they didn't send in payments with their
     registrations) towards the end of 1991.

     Vint Cerf (vcerf@NRI.RESTON.VS.US)

INTERNET RESEARCH REPORTS
-------------------------

     AUTONOMOUS NETWORKS
     -------------------

        No progress to report this month.

        Deborah Estrin (Estrin@USC.EDU)

     END-TO-END SERVICES
     -------------------

        No progress to report this month.

        Bob Braden (Braden@ISI.EDU)

INTERNET ENGINEERING REPORTS
----------------------------

     No report received.

     Phill Gross (pgross@NRI.RESTON.VA.US)












Westine                                                         [Page 3]

Internet Monthly Report                                      August 1991


INTERNET PROJECTS
-----------------

BARRNET
-------

     Three new 56kbps connections were added in August and two dial-in
     connections, bringing the total number of connected sites to 94.
     One of the sites, St.  Mary's College in Moraga, California, was a
     recipient of an NSF grant for connection that had been prepared
     with BARRNet staff assistance in 1990.

     The first BARRNet member was connected through BARRNet's new hub
     site at Santa Clara University. The Santa Clara hub, which was
     connected by T1 to Stanford University in July, is expected to
     substantially lower the line costs for members in the southern part
     of Santa Clara County, all of whom were previously connected to
     Stanford.

     With the activation of a T1 circuit between Stanford and the Naval
     Postgraduate School in Monterey, BARRNet can now provide T1
     connectivity to the whole Monterey Bay region.

     During the week of August 26-30 BARRNet supported the OSI hot-stage
     demonstration for the upcoming Interop exposition. During the
     entire week, systems in Europe were reachable, the most active
     participant situated in Finland on the FUNET.  Some tests were
     achieved by using TCP/IP/TELNET to access an Internet host, then
     initiating an OSI application, e.g. FTAM, back to the OSI host in
     the hotstage.

     Paul Baer <baer@jessica.stanford.edu>

BOLT BERANEK AND NEWMAN INC.
----------------------------

     Terrestrial Wideband Network (TWBNet) and ST/IP Gateway

     During August, an on-line calendar was made available for use at
     WPC and LANL, allowing those sites to check conferencing schedules
     to avoid conflicts when they initiate their own conferences.  After
     these sites have used the calendar successfully for several weeks,
     we plan to make it generally available.  Because conferences
     usually require assistance from BBN, reservations will still be
     required, but the calendar should provide useful information for
     last-minute testing, demonstrations, and impromptu conferences.
     Also during August, one of the codecs was removed from the hublet
     machine at BBN that supports 4-site Picturtel Codec conferencing.



Westine                                                         [Page 4]

Internet Monthly Report                                      August 1991


     This codec was needed for DWS testing.  Sites such as UCL and WPC,
     which use only Picturetel codecs, can no longer participate in
     conferences with more than two other sites.  Sites such as DARPA
     and ISI, which use both Picturetel and Concept codecs, can still
     participate in four-site conferences.

     There were few conferences in August.  Part of the reason for this
     was that the German fat pipe was down for two weeks during the
     scheduled installation of deicing equipment on the satellite ground
     stations.  Another part of the reason was probably the large number
     of vacations scheduled in August.  Several reservations have been
     received for September already.  During August, the TWB supported
     four two-site conferences, one four-way conference and one two-site
     Simnet exercise.  Of these conferences, one involved the
     conferencing suite at UCL.  These conferences were in support of
     the following projects; OMG group of the UK FatPipe, DARTnet and
     discussions on the DWSnet.

     Inter-Domain Policy Routing

     During the month of August, members of IDPR development group spent
     most of their time working on the gated version of IDPR.  SAIC is
     leading this effort, with BBN collaborating on the design of the
     software architecture.  There are a lot of interesting UNIX and
     gated-related issues which we were able to sidestep in our original
     prototype implementation but which we now must deal with for a
     releasable version.  For a detailed discussion, please refer to the
     idpr-wg mailing list.

     Jil Westcott (westcot@bbn.com)

CERFNET
-------

     In August, several sites were installed on CERFnet.  These include
     ISIS Pharmaceuticals (San Diego, California), Dataproducts,
     (Woodland Hills, California) and Apple Computer (Cupertino,
     California).

     In cooperation with PSINet and Alternet, CERFnet installed the
     first Commercial Internet Exchange in Northern California (CIX).
     The CIX allows CERFnet customers to exchange commercial Internet
     traffic with other CIX member sites.

     Karen McKelvey <karen@cerf.net>






Westine                                                         [Page 5]

Internet Monthly Report                                      August 1991


CICNET
-------

     CICNet activities for July and August

     On July 11, the four CICNet T-1 circuits to Argonne National
     Laboratory were cut over from terrestrial access to the MCI
     alternative access digital microwave radio.  The cutover went off
     without a hitch and was the final step in the reconfiguration of
     CICNet facilities in the Chicago area to take advantage of the
     NSFNET node at Argonne.  In July, CICNet also hosted separate
     meetings with Ameritech and MCI to discuss new technologies and new
     services.  At the end of July Paul Holbrook attended the IETF
     meeting in Atlanta.

     In August, Mike Staman and John Hankins attended the FARNET meeting
     and NSF sponsored planning meeting in Big Sky, Montana.  On August
     23, CICNet staff and representatives from CICNet member sites met
     with staff at Ameritech to discuss use of SMDS services in the
     CICNet infrastructure.  To support increased quality of
     communication between its members, CICNet installed a computer
     conferencing system during August.  A first application of this
     system will be to support the NIC activities described below.

     On August 28, an initial meeting of the CICNet NIC Services
     Committee was held in Chicago.  This committee includes
     representatives from nearly all of the CICNet member institutions
     and is charged with the development of high quality network
     information services on CICNet.  A wide range of disciplines was
     represented at the meeting, including: library automation, user
     support, and technical support.  At this meeting a steering
     committee and three task forces were appointed.  The task forces
     are: Tools and Infrastructure; Research Activities Database
     Development; and Campus-Wide Information Systems.  The next meeting
     of the committee is planned for Nov. 1, 1991

     John Hankins (hankins@cic.net)


COMMERCIAL INTERNET EXCHANGE (CIX)
----------------------------------

     The T1 Line to CERFNet became operational linking CERFNet to the
     other CIX member network providers (Alternet and PSINet).

     Traffic statistics are being gathered via SNMP and reports are
     being generated.  The following report outlines CIX-WEST usage for
     the month of August 1991.



Westine                                                         [Page 6]

Internet Monthly Report                                      August 1991


     CIX         In                           Out
     Member        Octets   Packets  Errors      Octets  Packets  Errors
     --------  ----------------------------  ---------------------------
     Alternet  6405681877  23290775    2823  2436041753  18012204      0
     CERFNet    185674302   1922536  453890   564414690   3092209      0
     PSINet    2615511850  18930171      34  6166635910  22541248   6777

     Starting: Aug 7 1991 at 09:27
     Ending: Aug 31 1991 at 23:54
     SNMP Polling Intervals: 2590
     SNMP Polling Frequency: 15 minutes

     In  - data entering the CIX member network
     Out - data exiting the CIX member network

     At the present time, approximately 370 networks within Alternet,
     CERFNet, and PSINet are using the CIX-WEST.

     Send mail to info@cix.org for information regarding the CIX.

     Mark Fedor  (fedor@uu.psi.com)

CREN
----

     The CREN Board decided in June that, because of the number and
     variety of alternative providers of similar services, CREN should
     terminate its CSNET services.  Because other providers have become
     larger and often less expensive than similar CSNET services, CSNET
     has been losing participants to alternative providers and began
     losing money on its services last year, which was also a factor in
     the CREN Board's decision.

     Participants in CSNET services were notified in June of the
     forthcoming termination and that their CSNET services would
     continue, if desired, until September 15, 1991, in order to allow
     an orderly transition to alternative suppliers.  CREN, through BBN,
     is providing assistance to participants in making this transition.

     By now, most participants are progressing nicely toward completion
     of their transition to new providers to replace their CSNET
     services, and many have already completed the transition to a
     regional network or a for-profit provider of direct or dial-up
     Internet access.

     CREN does NOT plan to terminate its BITNET services at this time.
     It does expect to expand into ancillary services in support of
     network mail, file transfer, and other activities useful for low-



Westine                                                         [Page 7]

Internet Monthly Report                                      August 1991


     end research and educational networking.  A proposed strategic plan
     for CREN is available as the file CREN PLAN9106 from
     LISTSERV@BITNIC.EDUCOM.edu.

     Jim Conklin (Conklin@BITNIC.EDUCOM.edu)

FEDERATION OF AMERICAN RESEARCH NETWORKS (FARNET)
-------------------------------------------------

     FARNET held a two-day workshop on interregional connectivity after
     1992 on August 12-13 and a one-day business meeting the following
     day.  The participants in the workshop will continue their
     interaction online in September and a set of recommendations will
     be delivered to NSF early in October.

     The next FARNET meeting will be held in conjunction with the
     November meeting of the IETF in New Mexico and will focus on the
     role of the midlevel networks in defining and implementing
     operations standards in the Internet.

     FARNET committees and their chairs are:

     External Affairs Richard Mandelbaum, NYSERNet
     K-12             Jim Luckett, NYSERNet
     Membership       Jim Williams, NevadaNet
     Nominating       Glenn Ricart, U. of Maryland/SURAnet
     Program          Paul Love, San Diego Supercomputer Center
     Technical        Gene Hastings, Pittsburgh Supercomputer Center
     User Services    Martyne Hallgren, Cornell U.

     Non-members are welcome to participate in committee activities.
     Let us know if you are interested.

     Laura Breeden (breeden@farnet.org)

ISI
---

     GIGABIT NETWORKING

     INFRASTRUCTURE

     Joyce Reynolds attended the Consortium for School Networking
     Meeting on User Interfaces in Austin, Texas, August 14th - 16th.







Westine                                                         [Page 8]

Internet Monthly Report                                      August 1991


     DARTNOC

     A "standard" DARTnet router kernel and corresponding source tree
     have been set up at ISI to serve as the basis for DARTnet
     experimenters to build their own additions and modifications to the
     kernel.  This kernel is mostly SunOS 4.1.1 with enhancements, fixes
     and hsis driver supplied by Van Jacobson, plus IP multicasting
     supplied by Steve Deering.

     Steve Casner (Casner@isi.edu)

     MULTIMEDIA CONFERENCING

     ISI organized a meeting this month with other researchers working
     on connection management architectures from Xerox PARC and
     Bellcore.  Discussion centered around the various approaches that
     have been used in the past to support multimedia services across
     local and wide-area networks.  In particular, the question was
     raised, "What protocols and models do we need to define in order to
     allow multiple implementations of teleconferencing systems to
     interoperate across the Internet?"  We are working on a
     specification of a conference control protocol -- based on our
     existing system -- as one such protocol.

     Eve Schooler and Steve Casner (schooler@ISI.EDU, casner@ISI.EDU)

     Seven RFCs were published this month.

        RFC 1248:  Baker, F. (ACC), R. Coltun, Computer Science
                   Center, "OSPF Version 2 Management Information
                   Base", July 1991.

        RFC 1249:  Howes, T., M. Smith, B. Beecher, "Dixie Protocol
                   Specification", University of Michigan.

        RFC 1250:  Postel, J., Editor, "IAB Official Protocol
                   Standards", USC/Information Sciences Institute,
                   August 1991.

        RFC 1251:  Malkin, G., "Who's Who in the Internet Biographies
                   of IAB, IESG and IRSG Members", FTP Software, Inc.,
                   August 1991.

        RFC 1252:  Baker, F. (ACC), R. Coltun, Computer Science
                   Center, "OSPF Version 2 Management Information
                   Base", August 1991.





Westine                                                         [Page 9]

Internet Monthly Report                                      August 1991


        RFC 1253:  Baker, F. (ACC), R. Coltun, Computer Science
                   Center, "OSPF Version 2 Management Information
                   Base", August 1991.

        RFC 1254:  Mankin, A. (MITRE), K. Ramakrishnan, (DEC),
                   "Gateway Congestion Control Survey", August 1991.

     Ann Westine (Westine@ISI.EDU)

JVNCNET, NORTH EAST RESEARCH REGIONAL NETWORK
---------------------------------------------

     General information is available on-line from nisc.jvnc.net.  Use
     "telnet nisc.jvnc.net", username: nicol, no password.

     The next Megabytes newsletter will be distributed in October.  To
     receive a complimentary subscription, send email to "megabytes-
     request@jvnc.net".

     The next planned JvNCnet symposium will focus on network
     applications.  For further symposium information, please send
     inquiries to "nisc@jvnc.net."

     For more NOCOL information (JvNCnet Network Operations Center On-
     Line software package) and for acquisition of this application
     without charge, please send email to "nocol-info@jvnc.net."

     Operations

     Availability for July, 1991 is 99.73%.

     The traffic for July was 1,818,051,429 (combined incoming plus
     outgoing) packets. Four highest contributors were Princeton
     University (15.62%), Rutgers University (14.17%), UPENN (6.21%),
     and Yale (6.18%)

     Rochelle Hammer <hammer@nisc.jvnc.net>

LOS NETTOS
----------

     A long standing T1 outage between ISI and NOSC was finally
     resolved.  PacBell installed new repeaters as part of routine
     maintenence and suddenly the T1 link was back in operation.  It was
     fortunate alternate routing was available.






Westine                                                        [Page 10]

Internet Monthly Report                                      August 1991


     The NOSC Cisco node was retrofitted with an AUX port.

     OSPF testing has been temporarily defered.

     Walt Prue (Prue@ISI.EDU)

NNSC, UCAR/BOLT BERANEK and NEWMAN, INC.
----------------------------------------

     The Internet Resource Guide and the files in the Internet-drafts
     directory are now available via electronic mail from the NNSC
     Info-Server.  The Info-Server is an automatic program that delivers
     information by electronic mail.  This allows many sites without IP
     services access to this information in a convenient manner.

     For retrieval information on the resource guide directory, send a
     mail message to: info-server@nnsc.nsf.net, with the following body:

          Request: resource-guide
          Topic:   resource-guide-help
          Request: end

     The guide will continue to be maintained and available through
     anonymous FTP at nnsc.nsf.net, in the directory "resource-guide."
     The NNSC Staff will also continue to maintain the electronic
     mailing lists which distribute additions and updates to the guide.

     For retrieval information on the Internet-drafts directory, send a
     mail message to: info-server@nnsc.nsf.net, with the following body:

          Request: internet-drafts
          Topic:   help
          Topic:   1id-abstracts.txt
          Request: end

     The file "1id-abstracts.txt", is a summary sheet that provides a
     short synopsis of each Internet Draft available within the
     "Internet-Drafts" Directory.

     The NNSC Staff has distributed additions to Chapters 3 and 5 of the
     guide.










Westine                                                        [Page 11]

Internet Monthly Report                                      August 1991


     The NNSC is also participating the development of a simple screen
     client for the the Wide Area Information Server (WAIS) system.
     WAIS is a electronic information publishing system developed by
     Thinking Machines, Apple Computer, and Dow Jones.  The new screen-
     based interface will allow the NNSC to provide a simple and natural
     query tool for its many documents.  The test version of the client
     may be seen by telneting to "hub.nnsc.nsf.net" and logging in with
     username "wais". Send any comments or feedback to
     "jcurran@nnsc.nsf.net".

     Corinne Carroll <ccarroll@nnsc.nsf.net>

NEARNET
-------

     NEARnet has grown to 95 members.

     The NEARnet Trouble Ticket system has been enhanced to allow sites
     remote access to tickets using the "finger" protocol.

     NEARnet has deployed OSI CLNS routing throughout its backbone so
     that members may partipcipate in the Interop '91 Wide Area OSI
     demonstration.

     by John Rugo <jrugo@bbn.com>

PREPNET
-------

     During August, SIAM (Society for Industrial and Applied
     Mathematics) joined PREPnet.  SIAM will be connected to the
     Philadelphia hub at 56Kbps.

     Marsha Perrott, PREPnet NIC Manager, attended the July/August IETF
     meeting in Atlanta.

     Tom Bajzek, PREPnet Executive Director, and Gary Augustson, PREPnet
     Steering Committee Chairperson, attended a FARNET workshop to
     discuss the funding of the NSFNET backbone.

     PREPnet NIC (prepnet+@andrew.cmu.edu)










Westine                                                        [Page 12]

Internet Monthly Report                                      August 1991


PSI
----

     PSI's SNMP

     The PSI MIB compiler was modified to enforce ASN.1 rules more
     rigorously.

     A configuration database was implemented and tested in preparation
     for the implementation of the recommendations of the IETF SNMP
     Security Working Group.

     The PSI SNMP software was successfully tested for interoperability
     with approximately 15 other Network Management Station
     implementations, and approximately 20 SNMP Agent implementations.

     Wengyik Yeong (yeongw@spartacus.psi.com)

SAIC
----

     The initial gated implementation has undergone some testing.  More
     experience with this version is still needed.  However, the changes
     to gated software have been forwarded to Cornell.  The design
     document for the gated implementation is nearing completion,
     although there are some unresolved issues.  These include:

        - The specification of the common database for the different
          IDPR modules and how the modules will do database access.
        - The interaction of the gated process with an independent
          route synthesis process.

     Another critical area where discussion has begun is the
     implementation of the kernel software needed for IDPR
     encapsulation.  The existing software is inadequate.  The operation
     of IP forwarding in various flavors of 4.3BSD UNIX and the
     requirements specified in the Router Requirements document are
     being examined to see how IDPR forwarding can best be inserted.

     Existing SNMP facilities in gated have been found to be inadequate
     for experimentation with other network management software.
     Alternatives are being investigated.

     Zorica Avramovic has been preparing a seminar on IDPR to be held on
     September 5th at MITRE in McLean, VA.






Westine                                                        [Page 13]

Internet Monthly Report                                      August 1991


     Planned activies:

     More complex configurations need to be examined with the existing
     software.  This is expected to be done using a 16 node testbed,
     using Sparta and MITRE facilities.

     BBN has organized a video conference for September 12th for
     discussion of some of the issues surrounding the gated
     implementation.

     With the design document complete, work will being on the
     implementation of the new configuration parser and common database
     facilities.

     Robert "Woody" Woodburn (Woody@sparta.com)

SAN DIEGO SUPERCOMPUTER CENTER
------------------------------

     Work on the CASA gigabit project continued during August.  At a
     recent meeting LANL expressed interest in SDSC helping to adapt
     their HiPPI network simulator to a wide area network, such as CASA.
     Hans-Werner Braun and Dan Massey of SDSC are investigating the
     possibility.  Additionally, they're looking into adding graphic
     displays to the simulator.  Hans-Werner Braun also attended a CASA
     Executive Committee meeting at LANL.

     During the month NSF expressed interest in including a part of
     Hans-Werner Braun's time in the NSF-supported NREN Engineering
     Group (NEG).  An agreement was reached with Steve Wolff where
     Hans-Werner will be able to contribute to this project.

     SDSC's involvement in the DEC sponsored Sequoia-2000 project
     continues in the areas of both networking and visualization.  The
     networking effort is currently in the areas of topology & equipment
     vendor identification.

     We are working to integrate the Macintosh shareware mailer, Eudora,
     into our central mail gateway which is based on SoftwareTools and
     MultiNet.

     During the coming two weeks we will be integrating a pair of NSC
     FDDI/T3 routers into our network.  They will be used to connect
     SDSC with the San Diego Convention Center and provide the link for
     demos at the TCA & EDUCOM shows being held there.

     by Paul Love <loveep@sdsc.edu>




Westine                                                        [Page 14]

Internet Monthly Report                                      August 1991


SRI
----

     Over 3,700 new numbers were assigned in August.  The cumulative
     total of all IP numbers now assigned is now 34,930.  See the table
     below for a breakdown of these assignments by class.

     The cumulative total of assigned Autonomous System Numbers (ASNs)
     is 1,336.  The total number of domains registered is 3,245.  This
     number includes the root domain, 64 top-level domains, 3,113
     second-level domains, and 67 third-level MIL subdomains.

                             Cumulative IP Network Statistics

     Month/Year                       Class

                             A       B       C           Total

     Aug. 1991               45      5,908   28,977      34,930
     Jul. 1991               43      5,799   25,364      31,206
     Jun. 1991               43      5,654   24,449      30,146
     May. 1991               43      5,026   24,797      29,866
     Apr. 1991               43      4,977   25,897      30,917
     Mar. 1991               41      4,520   24,572      29,133
     Feb. 1991               39      4,347   22,552      26,938
     Jan. 1991               39      4,246   21,731      26,016
     Dec. 1990               36      4,305   21,811      26,152
     Nov. 1990               35      4,198   21,149      25,382

     Please note: On 26 September, the Internet registration functions
     (IP networks, ASNs, and domains) that have been performed by SRI
     will be transferred to Government Systems Inc.  All registration
     activities will be suspended between 26 - 30 September to
     facilitate this transition.  Please refer to DDN Management
     Bulletin 84 for details.  Until the end of September, this bulletin
     is available online via FTP from host NIC.DDN.MIL host
     (192.67.67.20) with pathname DDN-NEWS:DDN-MANAGEMENT-BULLETIN-
     84.TXT.

     Mary Stahl (stahl@nisc.sri.com)

     SRI is now offering two new network information products.  The
     TCP/IP CD is a CD-ROM that contains all the online RFCs and IENs,
     as well as archives of the namedroppers and tcp-ip mailing lists.
     It has a program that allows searches of these files to isolate
     information on particular topics of interest.  Some public domain
     software is also included on the CD as there was enough space left
     over.  This CD will be offered at a discount at Interop91.



Westine                                                        [Page 15]

Internet Monthly Report                                      August 1991


     The Internet Technology Handbook was edited by Vint Cerf.  It
     organizes currently pertinent RFCs into ten general networking
     topics offered in six volumes.  Each topic is introduced and
     explained, thus providing some background context for the RFCs.  An
     update to the outdated Protocol Handbook, the new compendium has
     the same goal of gathering in hardcopy all the RFC information a
     novice TCP/IP network implementor would need.  It takes its
     guidance from the IAB Official Protocol Standards RFC (1250) and
     includes many informational RFCs and FYIs along with those RFCs on
     the standards track.

     For more information on either of these new offerings, call 1-415-
     859-NETS or send a message to nisc@nisc.sri.com.

     April Marine (april@nisc.sri.com)

UCL
----

     We have succesfully put up ST-II (the kernel version) and made VT
     connection to SICS.  Ian Wakeman got the connection through (to
     Steve Pink & Craig Partridge) and heard laughter in return - Ian
     says: "I feel just like Alexander Graham Bell..."

     We also finally properly installed our video CODEC on our analog
     video switch and also installed the serial line side connection
     (selectable between this and the butterfly/T20) to an HSI card on a
     sparc with Van Jacobsons driver.

     We have also run VT experiments (but not video) to Lancaster, and
     plans are afoot to connect to the University of Ulster. We await
     someone in Cambridge (Cambridgeshire).

     We are running the London FIX measurements that were reported at
     INET again as there are now about 10 major campus sites in the UK
     providing "real" IP traffic sources of some complexity. The current
     stats (at a quiet time of year) still show average around 50% line
     utilization in daytime.

     There was an OMG video conference - using our second video
     conferencing room & switching some services round the department.

     John Crowcroft attends the End to End research group meeting at
     SICS 31 Aug/1st Sep.

     John Crowcroft (j.crowcroft@CS.UCL.AC.UK)





Westine                                                        [Page 16]

Internet Monthly Report                                      August 1991


UNIVERSITY OF DELAWARE
----------------------


     1.   The IAB approved the IESG recommendation that NTP Version 3 be
          a proposed Standard.  Among other places, it can be fetched
          from louie.udel.edu in the pub/ntp/doc directory as the
          compressed files ntpv3a.ps.Z, ntpv3b.ps.Z and ntpv3c.ps.Z.
          These files are in PostScript format and are known to survive
          HP and Apple PostScript printers.

     2.   The DARTnet time-synchronization subnet involving ten routers
          and over 18 test hosts is still undergoing tests and
          measurements. A dedicated primary time server has been
          configured for exclusive DARTnet access. This server is
          synchronized via our GPS reciever, with backups our WWVB
          receiver, LORAN receiver and cesium clock.

     3.   Work continues with Delmarva Power on rehosting our fuzzball
          time servers to SPARCstations using the xntp NTP daemon, as
          well as provide support for our GPS receiver. Meanwhile, the
          UDel and ISI fuzzball time servers have been converted to use
          the new WWVB broadcast timecode format which provides the year
          and advance leap-second warning.

     4.   Dave Mills attended the DARPA ITAI meeting at Mitre Bedford,
          the end2end research group meeting in Stockholm, and the
          SIGCOM 91 Symposium in Zurich.

     5.   Dave Mills (Mills@UDEL.EDU)





















Westine                                                        [Page 17]

Internet Monthly Report                                      August 1991


DIRECTORY SERVICES
------------------

This section of the Internet Monthly is devoted to efforts working to
develop directory services that are for, or effect, the Internet.  We
would like to encourage any organization with news about directory
service activities to use this forum for publishing brief monthly news
items.  The current reporters list includes:

        o IETF OSIDS Working Group [X]
        o IETF DISI Working Group  [X]
        o Field Operational X.500 Project
           - ISI
           - Merit
           - PSI
           - SRI
        o National Institute of Standards and Technology [X]
        o North American Directory Forum
        o OSI Implementor's Workshop [X]
        o PARADISE Project
        o PSI DARPA/NNT X.500 Project
        o PSI WHITE PAGES PILOT
        o Registration Authority Committee (ANSI USA RAC)
        o U.S. Department of State, Study Group D,
            MHS Management Domain subcommittee (SG-D MHS-MD)
        o ANSI ASC X3T5.4 Directory Ad Hoc Group

                [X] indicates no report this month

Steve Hotz (hotz@isi.edu)
DS Report Coordinator

FOX -- FIELD OPERATIONAL X.500 PROJECT
--------------------------------------

     The FOX project is a DARPA and NSF sponsored effort to provide a
     basis for operational X.500 deployment in the NREN/Internet.  This
     work is being carried out at Merit, NSYERNet/PSI, SRI and ISI.  ISI
     is the main contractor and responsible for project oversight.

     ISI
     ---

        ISI organized the August 27 FOX phone conference, which included
        participants from all of the FOX contractors.  FOX participants
        are tentatively scheduled to meet at Interop '91.

        Steve Hotz (hotz@ISI.EDU)



Westine                                                        [Page 18]

Internet Monthly Report                                      August 1991


     MERIT
     -----

         o Sue Hares chaired the Interop OSI hot staging session,
           which includes X.500 interoperability testing and demos.

         o Chris Weider is compiling a list of DUA demos that can
           be done at Interop.

         o Chris will attend the RARE WG3 meeting in Zurich at the
           end of September.

         o Demonstrated the K-12 directory system and e-mail interface.

         o Upgrade to isode/quipu 7.0 and new versions of DIXIE and
           sendmail-x.500 for sprint.com.  All mail going through this
           gateway now does directory lookups.

         o Work on schema documents progressing.  An additional document
           on schema for NSAP addresses is in progress.

        Mark Knopper (mak@merit.edu)

     PSI
     ---

        A script was written to automate the loading of uumap
        information into the DIT.

        PSI participated in the FOX phone conference of 8/27/91.

        Wengyik Yeong (yeongw@psi.com)

     SRI
     ----

        Based on discussion during the IETF DISI Working Group meeting
        in July, Russ Wright (LBL) and Ruth Lang compiled and began work
        on the list of required changes to the document "A Catalog of
        Available X.500 Implementations" (Internet-Draft document
        draft-ietf-disi-catalog-00.txt).  We received one revised
        submission for WIN/DS from The Wollongong Group, Inc.  We
        solicited descriptions for PIZARRO, ud, and AT&T
        implementations(s).  Thus far one description has been returned
        for ud from the University of Michigan.  We received and
        responded to 10 queries regarding the document's availability.





Westine                                                        [Page 19]

Internet Monthly Report                                      August 1991


        Interop demonstration ideas were submitted to Chris Weider of
        Merit who volunteered to coordinate this effort for the FOX
        project.

        @o=Internet@ou=WHOIS is populated based on dumps of the DDN-NIC
        WHOIS database.  The transfer of responsibility for DDN-NIC
        services which includes the maintenance of the WHOIS database
        will transfer from SRI to GSI in October 1991.  Because this
        transfer will effect SRI's ability to keep the information in
        @o=Internet@ou=WHOIS up to date, SRI initiated discussion with
        NSF and DARPA to pursue options to ensure that the X.500
        information is kept up to date.

        Jose Garcia-Luna, Ken Harrenstien, and Ruth Lang participated in
        the FOX phone conference project meeting held on August 27.

        Ruth Lang (rlang@nisc.sri.com)

NORTH AMERICAN DIRECTORY FORUM
-------------------------------

     A revised version of the NADF naming document (NADF-175) is being
     issued as RFC-1255 ("A Naming Scheme for C=US").  Comments are
     being solicited.

PARADISE
--------

     Forthcoming project operational meetings will be held on 24
     September (Nottingham) and 30 October (London).  The next PUNTERS
     meeting will be held on the first day of the RARE WG3 meeting to be
     held in Zurich between 30 September and 2 October, which will
     include a day of tutorials, demonstrations and presentations with
     representation from MERIT et al.

     After discussion with the CPMU (the COSINE Project Management Unit)
     some changes are to be made to the COSINE DUA known as "de".  It is
     hoped these will be implemented by 13 September and we look forward
     to receiving comments on the interface's feel and usability.  The
     address again is: telnet 128.86.8.56, and type "dua" at the login.
     The project is committed to a second release of this software in
     twelve month's time.

     PARADISE will shortly be announcing the release of a packaged DSA
     and DUA based on QUIPU 7.0 and "de".  The intention of this package
     is to be able to market a more turnkey X.500 solution particularly
     to organizations/pilots with little experience with OSI products.




Westine                                                        [Page 20]

Internet Monthly Report                                      August 1991


     The next PARADISE brochure is due to come out in November to
     coincide with ESPRIT Conference Week, hosted by the European
     Commission, which takes place in Brussels between 25-29 November.
     There is a limited number of the first brochure still available;
     when supplies run dry we will make the electronic version available
     in PostScript.  We are planning a much greater volume for the
     second issue.

     David Goodman (d.goodman@cs.ucl.ac.uk)
     PARADISE Project Manager


PSI DARPA/NNT X.500 Project
---------------------------

     Modifications were made to the 'pcwp' MSDOS front-end to the White
     Pages, and another beta version was released at the end of the
     month.  It is available for anonymous ftp from uu.psi.com in
     wp/pcwp.exe.

     Work is progressing on a full-screen front-end to the White Pages
     for MSDOS.

     A script was written to retrieve listings of the contents of
     archives available for anonymous ftp in preparation for extensions
     to the x5ftp retrieval application.

     A proposal for the organization of the US DMD was prepared, based
     on planning and testing (in the testbed, below) performed during
     the month.

     Testbeds were set up to perform some testing on X.500-related
     proposals.  In the past month, testing was performed on the IETF
     OSIDS group's recommendations on DSA naming, and to test a proposed
     plan for the organization of the US DMD.  Some minor testing was
     also performed to verify that changes made to the US public naming
     scheme in the last NADF meeting did not cause any problems.

     Wengyik Yeong (yeongw@psi.com)

PSI WHITE PAGES PILOT PROJECT
-----------------------------

     New organizations added to the pilot this past month are:

             The Mitre Corporation
             Vitalink Communications Corporation
             Duke University



Westine                                                        [Page 21]

Internet Monthly Report                                      August 1991


             Hughes Aircraft Co.

     Organizations deleted from the US arc in the past month are:

             University of Alaska at Fairbanks

     Wengyik Yeong (yeongw@psi.com)

Registration Authority Committee (ANSI USA RAC)
-----------------------------------------------

     REPORT on the ANSI RAC Meeting of August 6-7 in NYC.

     Agenda items of interest to OSI-DS and the internet community were:

        (1) Approval of some changes to the ANSI Procedures for
        Registration of Names in C=US.  These are not substantive in
        terms of the needs of the Internet community, or of OSI-DS.
        They mostly deal with minor legalities for things like challenge
        procedures and such.

     Registration of c=US Organization Names is proceeding smoothly at
     this point, though fewer than 10 names have been registered so far.
     Most registrations to date have been for Numeric Identifiers.

        (2) Results of the joint ISO/CCITT Editing Meeting for ISO DIS
        9834-1 which changes the arc which is used for the combined
        Alpha-numeric and Numeric identifiers which are used for the
        ANSI c=US registrations.  It seems that CCITT realized too late
        that only ISO had an arc that was designated to do this.

     (This is very confusing.  I will do my best to explain it as fast
     simply as possible!)  All the ramifications of this change are not
     yet fully understood, but it is agreed that any identifiers already
     assigned under the original arc { iso(1) member-body(2) US(840)
     organization(n) } must never be invalidated or compromised in any
     way.  Thus, all alpha names and numeric identifier values already
     assigned under {1 2 US(840) } must be reserved by ANSI under
     {joint-iso-ccitt(2) country(?)  840 }, which is the new arc that is
     assigned to c=US by joint-iso-ccitt and which will (most likely) be
     administered by ANSI, since ANSI is already in the business with
     acceptable operational rules.

     Joint-iso-ccitt authority has not yet decided what number the new
     arc will be assigned, so it is represented here with a (?).
     Perhaps the number will be assigned this month at the ISO/CCITT
     meeting.




Westine                                                        [Page 22]

Internet Monthly Report                                      August 1991


     The question of whether ANSI will have administrative authority
     over the new arc { 2 ? 840 } hinges on the fact that the new arc is
     under joint-iso-ccitt, and is assigned to the Country (c=US) and
     not to an ISO Member-Body (ANSI).  Thus, the authority and
     responsibility is shared by ANSI (ISO Member-Body for the US) and
     the US Department of State CCITT National Committee, Study Group D
     (CCITT Member Body for the US).  Actions are underway to resolve
     this in favor of ANSI assumption of { 2 ? US(840) } registration
     authority and responsibility.  Both ANSI and Study Group D are
     working on it.

     As for the impact of this change on the use of c=US registered
     names in the X.500 Directory Service, it should be noted that the
     full numeric identifier (OID) is not used for a Distinguished Name
     (DN) (except possibly for the "short-form" name if it is ever
     approved -- but that is another story altogether).  In c=US, the
     X.500 DN is formed with the Alpha Name value of of an ANSI
     Registered Organization under c=US.

     This means that the alpha names will all be the same in either the
     old or the new c=US arc, and X.500 Directory Services will be
     unaffected by the change.  Only numeric OID values will be
     affected.

     Since the new joint-iso-ccitt arc { 2 ? 840 } will be constrained
     by ANSI to have the same Values (used or reserved) for any
     registered organization in both the { 1 2 840 } and { 2 ? 840 }
     arcs, and since X.500 "top" levels are always country codes (from
     iso 3166), nothing is changed in c=US.

        (3) The Proposed NADF c=US Naming scheme was presented to USA
        RAC for consideration of any aspects that might affect, or be
        affected by ANSI registration actions.  ANSI USA RAC has taken
        the NADF proposal under study, but has not otherwise taken any
        action.

     There is concern by the NADF that ANSI should endorse the c=US
     scheme in order to stabilize it and assure that no actions will be
     taken to upset it after NADF begins to deploy systems.  On behalf
     of the NADF, Einar Stefferud made the following proposal to the
     ANSI USA RAC:

          That the ANSI Register of Organization Names should have a
          related list of reserved names of organizations chartered by
          the US Government (e.g., Lawrence Livermore National Labs), so
          as to prevent attempts by private organizations to register
          names that are already in use by US Government chartered
          organizations.



Westine                                                        [Page 23]

Internet Monthly Report                                      August 1991


          ANSI USA RAC countered with the argument that this is only
          feasible if the US Government already maintains such a list
          (Register of US Chartered Organization Names) that ANSI can
          use, without having to do a research job to find these names.

     Einar Stefferud has taken an assignment from the USA RAC to locate
     the register of US Government Chartered Organizations.  This task
     is to be accomplished by asking those organizations involved with
     OSI-DS to find this register, and tell us where to get copies of
     the list of names to use. (e.g., LLNL should tell us where it is!)

     Another proposal involved the observation that ANSI appears to have
     registered each of the state governments, using the same FIPS 5
     locality codes that the NADF uses for stateOrStateEquivalent.
     Closer examination shows that what is really registered are
     stateOrProvince names, and not states-as-organizations.  Indeed,
     there is some confusion at this point with regard to exactly what
     was originally intended when ANSI grafted the FIPS 5 two letter
     State Codes into its registry under the { 1 2 US(840) } arc.

     We also note that ANSI has registered a number of ANSI Standards
     under the same arc, with a segment of the numeric ID space reserved
     for standards.  Thus, under the { 1 2 US(840) } arc, ANSI has
     registered three distinct kinds of things (stateOrProvince names,
     standards names, and private organization names), each with a
     segment of numeric values reserved for the type.

     Given all this, Einar Stefferud made the following proposal to the
     ANSI USA RAC.

          Remove the copy of FIPS 5 state codes in favor of pointing to
          the FIPS 5 registry, in order to avoid any possible confusion
          about who is the real naming authority for assigning names to
          states and state equivalents in c=US.  It is obvious that c=US
          naming is the prerogative of the US Government, and that the
          US Government is not going to ask ANSI for permission to name
          any new states, or state-equivalents.

          ANSI USA RAC countered with a task assignment Stefferud to
          produce a complete, fleshed out proposal as a contribution to
          the next ANSI USA RAC meeting during the week of November 18.
          The proposal is due by September 30.

     The skeleton of this (DRAFT) proposal is as follows (your comments
     are welcome):






Westine                                                        [Page 24]

Internet Monthly Report                                      August 1991


     ANSI shall use and maintain 3 tables of names.

        Table 1: The names of the states and state-equivalents are found
        in FIPS 5.  The FIPS 5 name for any state or state-equivalent
        (e.g., "California") is the registered name for that state or
        state-equivalent (e.g., "for the State of California").

        Table 2: Names of standards registered by ANSI under { 1 2
        US(840) } must be distinguished (different) from any state or
        state-equivalent names in FIPS 5, and from any names assigned to
        any private organization under this same arc.

        Table 3: Names of organizations in the { 1 2 US(840) } and the {
        2 ? US(840) } registers maintained by ANSI must always be
        distinguished (different) from any names registered in Part 1,
        Part 2, or Part 3.

     The logic of this proposal is that any alpha or numeric name of any
     entity (state, standard or organization) registered in { 1 2
     US(840) } or in {2 ? US(840) } must be unique without consideration
     of the attribute type with which it may be associated.  This will
     assure that

     These three tables (plus the to-be-discovered table of US
     Government Chartered Organization Names) will thus serve as
     reserved lists against which names requested by applicants will be
     checked for conflicts.  In the event of a conflict, the name
     request must be denied.

     This proposal has not yet been given to anyone else for review or
     comment.  It will be further fleshed out and refined before
     submission as a contribution to the next ANSI USA RAC meeting.

     It is not part of this specific proposal that the two arcs -- { 1 2
     US(840) } and { 2 ? US(840) } must be synchronized so that they are
     identical wherever there is any entry in one that also exists in
     the other.  Also, all existing alpha names registered in { 1 2
     US(840) } must be simply copied over to { 2 ? US(840) } and new
     organization names should henceforth be registered only in { 2 ?
     US(840) }.  As noted above, this will not be detectable in the use
     of these alpha names in X.500 DistinguishedNames.

     Einar Stefferud (stef@ics.uci.edu)








Westine                                                        [Page 25]

Internet Monthly Report                                      August 1991


SG-D MHS-MD
-----------

     MHSMD will meet next month on Sept 17-18 at the US Dept of State,
     Room 1207.  To arrange for your attendance if you wish to attend:

                 Phone Gary Fereno at 202-647-2592, or
                 FAX at 202-647-7407, or
                 Internetmail to "Gary Fereno" <0004266994@mcimail.com>

     Secutity is tight at the State Dept.  You must be listed in advance
     to be admitted to the building, and you must have ID to show, but
     there are no other restrictions that I know of.  If you are not a
     US Citizen, ask Gary if this is a problem.

     A report will be forthcoming after the MHSMD  meeting.

     Einar Stefferud (stef@ics.uci.edu)

ANSI ASC X3T5.4 Directory Ad Hoc Group
--------------------------------------

     The American National Standards Institute (ANSI) Accredited
     Standards Committee (ASC) X3T5.4 met at Nashua, New Hampshire from
     July 22-26 1991.  The major agenda item was the preparation of
     ballot comments on the Committee Draft (CD) for Replication and the
     12 Proposed Draft Amendments (PDAMs) for extensions to the
     International Consultative Committee for Telegraphy and Telephony
     (CCITT) X.500 Recommendations/International Organization for
     Standardization (ISO)/International Electrotechnical Commission
     (IEC) 9594.  The CD and PDAMs resulted from the international
     editing meeting in Phoenix in April-May.

     The Directory Ad Hoc Group is generally pleased with the content of
     the CD and PDAMs and proposed that the US vote to accept them with
     one exception, the abstract services PDAM, which has one service
     that is not compatible with the access control model.  The proposed
     ballot comments were accepted by ANSI ASC X3T5.5 and with minor
     modifications by ANSI ASC X3T5.  Draft International Standard (DIS)
     and Draft Amendment (DAM) text is expected in November 1991.

     Ella Gardner (epg@gateway.mitre.org)









Westine                                                        [Page 26]

Internet Monthly Report                                      August 1991


CALENDAR OF EVENTS
------------------

     Readers are requested to send in dates of events that are
     appropriate for this calendar section.

1991 CALENDAR

     Sep 3-6         ACM SIGCOMM91, Zurich, Switzerland
                     Bernhard Plattner (plattner@inf.ethz.ch)
     Sep 29-Oct 4    5TH SDL (CCITT FDT) FORUM,
                     Rick Reed, GPT Coventry, UK
                     rick_reed@eurokom.ie
     Oct 7-15        6TH WORLD TELECOM'92 SYMPOSIUM, Geneva
     Oct 8-11        IFIP WORKSHOP ON OPEN DISTRIBUTED PROCESSING
                     jdm@fokus.berlin.gmd.dbp.de or
                     heymer@iir-adlershof.adw.dp.dd
     Oct 15-17       4TH INTL. WORKSHOP ON PROTOCOL TEST SYSTEM
                     Leidschendam, Jan Kroon (J_Kroon@pttrnl.nl)
     Nov 18-22       IETF, Santa Fe, MN
                     Megan Davies (mdavies@NRI.RESTON.VA.US
     Nov 19-22       FORTE'91, University of Queensland
                     Ken Parker, Telecom Austrl (k.parker@trl.oz.au)
     Dec 2-5         4TH INT. WORKSHOP ON PETRI NETS AND
                     PERFORMANCE MODELS, Melbourne, Australia
                     Jonathan Billington, Telecom Austrl.
                     (j.billington @ trl.oz.au)
     Dec 2-5         GLOBECOM'91, See IEEE Publications. Phoenic
     Dec 14-18       OIW, NIST, Gaithersburg, MD

1992 CALENDAR

     Jan 13-21       ANSI X3T5
     Jan 20-22       RIPE, Amsterdam
     Jan 28-30       ANSI X3S3.3, Tucson, AZ
     Feb 19-20       RARE WG1, Location unknown
     Feb 20-21       RARE Manager Mtg, Location unknown
     Mar 2-6         ANSI X3T5
     Mar 2-6         CAIA '92  8th IEEE Conference on AI Application
     Mar 3-5         ACM CSC, Kansas City, MO
     Mar 9-13        IEEE802 Plenary, Irvine, CA
     Mar 9-13        OIW, NIST, Gaithersburg, MD
     Mar 16-19       Info Netwrk&DataComm, Espoo, FI
     Mar 18-20       Computers, Freedom & Privacy II,
                     Grand Hyatt Hotel, Washington, DC
     Mar 25-27       National Net 92, Washington DC
                     Mike Roberts (roberts@educom.edu)
     Apr 6-16        CCITT SG VII, Geneva, Switzerland



Westine                                                        [Page 27]

Internet Monthly Report                                      August 1991


     Apr 21-23       ANSI X3S3.3, Mountain View, Ca.
     <Spring>        IETF, San Diego, CA
                     Megan Davies (mdavies@nri.reston.va.us)
     May 4-6         ANSI X3T5
     May 4-8         DECUS '92, Atlanta, GA
     May 4-8         IEEE INFOCOM'92, See IEEE Pub., Florence
     May 12-14       Joint Network Conference 3, Innsbruck, Austria
                     (this is the RARE Networkshop - renamed)
     May 18-25       INTEROP92, Washington, D.C.
                     Dan Lynch (dlynch@interop.com)
     May 19-29       ISO/IEC JTC 1/SC 21, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada
     May 27-29       IFIP WG 6.5 Int'l Conference, Vancouver, Canada
     May ??-??       Third IFIP International Workshop on
                     Protocols for High-Speed Networks, Stockholm
                     Per Gunningberg, per@sics.se
                     Bjorn Pehrson, bjorn@sics.se
                     Stephen Pink, steve@sics.se
     Jun 8-12        OIW, NIST, Gaithersburg, MD
     Jun 10-11       RARE WG1, tentative-Location unknown
     Jun 11-12       RARE COSINE MHS MGR, tentative-Location unknown
     Jun 14-17       ICC-SUPERCOMM'92, Chicago, IL
     Jun 15-19       INET92, Kobe, Japan
                     Jun Murai (jun@wide.ad.jp), KEIO University
     Jun 16-18       ANSI X3S3.3, Minneapolos, MN
     Jun 22-25       PSTV-XII, Orlando
                     Umit Uyar (umit@honet5.att.com)
                     Jerry Linn or Holmdel, NIST
                     linnrj@ECF.NCSL.NIST.GOV
     Jun 14-17       ICC-SUPERCOMM'92, Chicago, See IEEE Publ..
     Jul 6-10        IEEE802 Plenary, Bloomington, MN
     Jul 13-17       ANSI X3T5
     Jul 13-24       ISO/IEC JTC1/SC6, San Diego, CA
     Aug 17-20       SIGCOMM, Baltimore, MD
                     Deepinder Sidhu, UMBC
     Sep 14-18       ANSI X3T5
     Sep 21-25       OIW, NIST, Gaithersburg, MD
     Sep 22-24       ANSI X3S3.3, Boston, MA
     Oct 5-8         FORTE'92, Lannion
                     Roland Groz (groz@lannion.cnet.fr)
                     Michel Diaz (diaz@droopy.laas.fr)
     Oct 26-30       INTEROP92, San Francisco
                     Dan Lynch (dlynch@interop.com)
     Nov 9-13        ANSI X3T5
     Dec             ANSI X3S3.3, Boulder, CO
     Dec 7-11        DECUS '92, Las Vegas, NV
     Dec 14-18       OIW, NIST, Gaithersburg, MD





Westine                                                        [Page 28]

Internet Monthly Report                                      August 1991


1993 CALENDAR

     Mar 8-12        INTEROP93, Wasington, D.C.
                     Dan Lynch (dlynch@interop.com)
     Mar 8-12        OIW, NIST, Gaithersburg, MD
     May 23-26       ICC'92, Geneva, Switzerland
     May-Jun         PSTV-XIII, University of Liege.
                     Contact: Andre Danthine,
     May 23-26       ICC'93, Geneva, See IEEE Publications.
     Jun 7-11        OIW, NIST, Gaithersburg, MD
     Aug             INET93,  San Francisco Bay Area
     Aug             SIGCOMM, San Francisco
     Sep 13-17       OIW, NIST, Gaithersburg, MD
     Sep 20-31       ISO/IEC JTC1/SC6, Seoul, Korea.
     Oct 25-29       INTEROP93, San Francisco
                     Dan Lynch (dlynch@interop.com)
     Nov 9-13        IEEE802 Plenary, LaJolla, CA
     Dec 6-10        OIW, NIST, Gaithersburg, MD

1994 CALENDAR

     Apr 18-22       INTEROP94, Washington, D.C.
                     Dan Lynch (dlynch@interop.com)
     Sep 12-16       INTEROP94, San Francisco
                     Dan Lynch (dlynch@interop.com)

1995 EVENTS

     Sep 18-22       INTEROP95, San Francisco, CA
                     Dan Lynch (dlynch@interop.com)





















Westine                                                        [Page 29]
