





~












MARCH 1991


INTERNET MONTHLY REPORTS
------------------------

The purpose of these reports is to communicate to the Internet Research
Group the accomplishments, milestones reached, or problems discovered by
the participating organizations.

     This report is for Internet information purposes only, and is not
     to be quoted in other publications without permission from the
     submitter.

Each organization is expected to submit a 1/2 page report on the first
business day of the month describing the previous month's activities.
These reports should be submitted via network mail to Ann Westine
(Westine@ISI.EDU) or Karen Roubicek (Roubicek@NNSC.NSF.NET).

TABLE OF CONTENTS

  INTERNET ACTIVITIES BOARD

     IAB MESSAGE  . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  3
     INTERNET RESEARCH REPORTS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  4
        AUTONOMOUS NETWORKS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  4
        END-TO-END SERVICES  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  4
     INTERNET ENGINEERING REPORTS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  4










Westine                                                         [Page 1]

Internet Monthly Report                                       March 1991


  INTERNET PROJECTS

     BARRNET . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  7
     BOLT BERANEK AND NEWMAN, INC.,  . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  8
     CICNET. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 10
     CORNELL . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 10
     FEDERATION OF AMERICAN RESEARCH NETWORKS (FARNET) . . . . page 11
     HIGHER EDUCATION AUTHORITY NETWORK (HEANET) . . . . . . . page 11
     ISI . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 12
     LOS NETTOS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 14
     MITRE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 14
     NNSC, UCAR/BOLT BERANEK and NEWMAN, INC., . . . . . . . . page 15
     NSFNET BACKBONE, MERIT. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 16
     PREPnet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 17
     SRI . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 18
     UCL . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 18
     UDEL. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 24

  DIRECTORY SERVICES ACTIVITIES . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 24

     IETF OSIDS & DISI WORKING GROUPS. . . . . . . . . . . . . page 24
     FOX - FIELD OPERATIONAL X.500 PROJECT . . . . . . . . . . page 24
        ISI. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 25
        MERIT. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 26
        PSI. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 27
        SRI. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 27
     NORTH AMERICAN DIRECTORY FORUM. . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 28
     PARADISE PROJECT. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 28
     PSI WHITE PAGES PILOT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 29






















Westine                                                         [Page 2]

Internet Monthly Report                                       March 1991



IAB MESSAGE

     A.  IP SECURITY OPTION

        The Host Requirements RFC cites RFC-1108 as a reference for the
        IP Security Option (PSO).  Unfortunately, as a number of vendors
        to the US Department of Defense have discovered, RFC-1108 has
        never been published.

        [The RFC Editor has a strict policy of never assigning an RFC
        number until the RFC is entirely ready for publication.  He made
        an exception at the request of the Host Requirements RFC editor,
        assigning the number 1108 to an IPSO draft that was (almost)
        completely approved.  Unfortunately, that IPSO draft
        subsequently ran into a brick wall somewhere in the vicinity of
        Washington, DC]

        As the result of significant efforts by IAB members Steve Kent
        and Vint Cerf, the IPSO specification has at least been approved
        by all relevant parties, and has been published as an Internet
        Draft:

          Title     : U.S. Department of Defense Security Options for
                      the Internet Protocol
          Author(s) : Stephen Kent
          Filename  : draft-ietf-ahwgipso-ipso-00.txt

        The IESG and IAB will move it into the standards track as soon
        as there is sufficient opportunity for community comment.  AT
        LAST, RFC-1108 will become a reality.

        Completion of the IPSO specification is not the end of the road,
        however.  For historical reasons, IPSO is oriented completely to
        US Department of Defense security.  This is insufficient for the
        modern Internet, for two reasons.

         (1) There is a requirement to support corporate security
             needs.

         (2) The Internet is now international in scope, and a
             US-centric solution is no longer adequate.

        The IETF and the IRTF are continuing to pursue these broader
        issues.  This work is led by the IETF Security Area Director
        Steve Crocker (crocker@tis.com) and by Steve Kent
        (kent@bbn.com), chair of the Privacy and Security Research
        Group.



Westine                                                         [Page 3]

Internet Monthly Report                                       March 1991


     B. STANDARDS ACTIONS

        The IAB has taken the following actions on standards since
        February 1991, in accordance with recommendations by the IESG:

          *  Draft Standard state for (SNMP) MIB II [RFC-1214].

          *  Proposed Standard state for the Concise MIB definition
             scheme [RFC-1212].

          *  Proposed Standard state for a group of link-layer MIBs:
             DS-1, DS-3, 802.4, and 802.5 [RFC's pending publication].

     Bob Braden (Braden@ISI.EDU)

INTERNET RESEARCH REPORTS
-------------------------

     AUTONOMOUS NETWORKS
     -------------------

        I plan to call a videoconference for late May to address long
        term issues with inter-domain routing, particularly in the
        context of IDPR implementation experience and the IDRP ANSI
        proposal.

        Deborah Estrin (Estrin@USC.EDU)

     END-TO-END SERVICES
     -------------------

        No progress to report.

        Bob Braden (Braden@ISI.EDU)

INTERNET ENGINEERING REPORTS
----------------------------

                         IETF report for March 1991

     1. The IETF met on March 11-15 in St. Louis.  Area and
        working group reports for this meeting are still in
        preparation, and will be submitted as part of the April
        Internet Monthly Report.







Westine                                                         [Page 4]

Internet Monthly Report                                       March 1991


     2. New Working Groups for Mar 01, 1991 to Mar 31, 1991

         Commercial Internet Protocol Security Option (cipso)
         Network Database (netdata)
         Network OSI Operations (noop)
         X.25 Management Information Base (x25mib)

     3. Concluded Working Groups for Mar 01, 1991 to Mar 31, 1991

         LAN Manager (lanman)

     4. Internet Draft Activity for Mar 01, 1991 to Mar 31, 1991

      (Revised draft (o), New Draft (+) )

        WG         I-D Title
      -------      ------------------------------------------------------
      (osids)    o X.500 and Domains
                        <draft-ucl-kille-x500domains-03.txt, or .ps>
      (bgp)      o Definitions of Managed Objects for the Border
                   Gateway Protocol (Version 3)
                        <draft-ietf-iwg-bgp-mib-02.txt>
      (rreq)     o Requirements for Internet IP Routers
                        <draft-ietf-rreq-iprouters-01.txt>
      (osids)    o The COSINE and Internet X.500 Schema
                        <draft-ietf-osids-cosinex500-03.txt>
      (osids)    o Replication and Distributed Operations extensions
                   to provide an Internet Directory using X.500
                        <draft-ietf-osids-replsoln-02.txt, or .ps>
      (osids)    o Using the OSI Directory to achieve User
                   Friendly Naming
                        <draft-ietf-osids-friendlynaming-02.txt, or .ps>
      (osids)    o Replication Requirement to Provide an Internet
                   Directory Using X.500
                        <draft-ietf-osids-replication-02.txt, or .ps>
      (osinsap)  + Guidelines for OSI NSAP Allocation in the Internet
                        <draft-ietf-osinsap-internetalloc-00.ps>
      (idpr)     + Inter-Domain Policy Routing Protocol Specification
                   and Usage: Version 1
                        <draft-ietf-idpr-specv1-00.txt, or .ps>
      (no wg)    + U.S. Department of Defense Security Options for
                   the Internet Protocol
                        <draft-ietf-ahwgipso-ipso-00.txt>
      (appleip)  + The Transmission of IP Datagrams Over AppleTalk
                   Networks
                        <draft-ietf-appleip-ipoverappletalk-00.txt>
      (osids)    + Handling QOS (Quality of service) in the Directory
                        <draft-ietf-osids-qos-00.txt, or .ps>



Westine                                                         [Page 5]

Internet Monthly Report                                       March 1991


      (osids)    + DSA Naming
                        <draft-ietf-osids-dsanaming-00.txt, or .ps>
      (osids)    + Naming Guidelines for Directory Pilots
                        <draft-ietf-osids-dirpilots-00.txt, or .ps>
      (no wg)    + Privacy Enhancement for Internet Electronic Mail:
                   Part I: Message Encryption and Authentication
                   Procedures
                        <draft-irtf-psrg-encryption-00.txt>
      (rdisc)    + ICMP Router Discovery Messages
                        <draft-ietf-rdisc-icmpmessage-00.txt>
      (no wg)    + The IP Addressing Issue
                        <draft-chiappa-ipaddressing-00.txt>

     17 Drafts produced,  7 new this period

     Phill Gross (pgross@NRI.RESTON.VA.US)



































Westine                                                         [Page 6]

Internet Monthly Report                                       March 1991


INTERNET PROJECTS
-----------------

BARRNET
-------

     Two new 56 kbps connections and one dial-in connection were added
     in March, bringing the total number of connected members to
     seventy-nine.

     Installation was completed on a new T1 interconnection between the
     California State University Network and BARRNet. The new link runs
     between Stanford University and San Francisco State University. The
     connection, under a new "Midlevel Network Connection Service
     Agreement" that is nearing completion, will be one of two between
     CSUNet and BARRNet (the other is already in place between UC Davis
     and Sacramento State University).

     Plans are proceeding for the addition of new T1 backbone circuits,
     including a link to a new hub site at Santa Clara University, the
     completion of a redundantloop through San Francisco (utilizing the
     Stanford-SF State connection and a new line between SF State and UC
     San Francisco), and a circuit between Stanford and the Naval
     Postgraduate School in Monterey (replacing an existing 56k line to
     the Monterey Bay Aquarium Research Institute).

     A demonstration of the new T3 backbone was conducted between
     BARRNet and the National Net'91 Conference in Washington DC March
     20-22. The demonstration ran an X-windows graphical database
     interface, called Image Query, that made use ofseveral different
     24-bit color image databases located both at Stanford and at
     Berkeley.  The Stanford database copy was accessed via the new T3
     ANS/NSFNET backbone while the Berkeley database was accessed via
     the older T1 NSFNET backbone.  The demo showed very clearly the
     need for at least T3 bandwidth if such applications are going to be
     practical. The difference in screen drawing time was at least 10 to
     1 faster over the T3 link. This showed both the availability of
     existing applications and the ability of existing platforms to take
     advantage of the higher speed.

     by Paul Baer <baer@jessica.stanford.edu>










Westine                                                         [Page 7]

Internet Monthly Report                                       March 1991


BOLT BERANEK AND NEWMAN INC.
----------------------------

     Terrestrial Wideband Network (TWBNet) and ST/IP Gateway

     In February, DARPA directed BBN and PSI to reconfigure the TWBNet
     topology to minimize line costs while maintaining site
     connectivity.  Accordingly, during March, a T1 circuit was
     implemented between the Albuquerque WPS and the Los Angeles WPS,
     and the T1 circuit between BBN and Mobile was removed.  In
     addition, the gateway at NCSA was removed and the one at Ft.
     Leavenworth was disconnected.  The latter will remain at the site
     until it is either reconnected or needed elsewhere.  The current
     TWBNet backbone topology is shown below (not drawn to scale):

                                                                BBN
                                                                /
                                                               NY
                                                              /
        LA ------------ Chicago ----- Pittsburgh ---- Wash DC
          \
           \
            \--- Albuquerque -------------Mobile

     In February and March there were ten video conferences.  Seven were
     between two sites and three involved four sites.  Two of the four
     site conferences were associated with major demonstrations of video
     conferencing and interactive multimedia applications over wide area
     networks.  These conferences linked sites in Europe and the United
     States.  The video conferencing was routed through the video
     "hublet" located at BBN.  For the latter half of February and the
     beginning of March the TWBNet was used extensively for testing
     conferencing in preparation for these demonstrations.  Included in
     the eight other conferences were a meeting of the Inter-Domain
     Policy Routing Working Group and three demonstrations of
     conferencing technology.  Participants included Mark Pullen, Peter
     Kirstein, and Danny Cohen.

     Inter-Domain Policy Routing

     Throughout most of March, we devoted the majority of our time to
     experimenting with our IDPR prototype on DARTNET.  Our experiments
     consisted of sending traffic between BBN and ISI over multiple
     paths and through domains of differing transit policies.  As
     DARTNET has no alternate paths between nodes, we used the
     Terrestrial Wideband Network in conjunction with DARTNET to provide
     a richer network topology.




Westine                                                         [Page 8]

Internet Monthly Report                                       March 1991


     We experimented with restrictive transit policies, changes in
     topology, and changes in transit policy, and observed how the
     routes changed accordingly.  Our data traffic consisted of a TELNET
     session between SPARCstations at BBN and ISI.  At this point, we
     were not concerned with high volumes of traffic, but rather with
     how the routes traversed by the TELNET traffic adapted to the
     changing policies and connectivity.  Satisfied with the results of
     our experiments, we presented a demonstration to Ira Richer during
     his visit to BBN at the end of March.

     Currently, we are putting together a user's guide for IDPR, and we
     are working on a white paper describing our approach to policy-
     based resource allocation.

     Internet O&M / ICBNet Infrastructure

     New software was installed in all of the European ICBNet gateways
     and most of the TWBNet gateways during February and March.  The new
     software relieves various CPU and memory-allocation bottlenecks in
     the gateways, providing the capacity to store EGP-derived routes to
     up to 3000 external networks.

     The new gateway software release also supports automatic fallback
     paths to the US Internet for European ICBNet sites, and includes
     monitoring and control improvements.  The primary backup path,
     which became operational in March, provides a route to the US via
     the 256 Kbps satellite circuit connecting the WPC ICBNet site in
     Germany to the TWBNet POP at BBN.  A secondary path, which will
     become operational pending routing configuration changes to be made
     by NTA, will provide a route to the US via the NTA ICBNet site's
     NORDUnet connection.

     The remaining TWBNet Butterfly gateways are scheduled to be
     upgraded with the new software in early April.

     A number of components associated with the 384 Kbps channel of the
     US-UK "fat pipe" circuit were repaired by the circuit provider in
     March.  As of the end of the month, these repairs appear to have
     eliminated chronic line-timing problems which had impacted US-UK
     internet connectivity.

     24x7 monitoring of the US-UK fat pipe connection was implemented by
     BBN at the end of March.

     Steve Storch <sstorch@BBN.COM>






Westine                                                         [Page 9]

Internet Monthly Report                                       March 1991


CICNET
-------

     At a meeting held on March 27, the CICNet Board of Directors
     approved the appointment of E. Michael Staman as the new Chief
     Executive of CICNet.  Mike iscurrently Associate Vice President and
     CIO at West Chester University, located in West Chester, PA.  He
     will join CICNet on a part time basis in April and will be full
     time on July 1, 1991.

     CICNet Assistant Director John Hankins participated in a conference
     sponsored by the American College of Radiology on issues related to
     networking and radiological research.  John also attended the
     National Net 91 Conference.

     Paul Holbrook, Manager of Technical Services, attended the March
     IETF meeting where he particiapted in a number of working groups
     dealing with security issues.

     by John Hankins <hankins@cic.net>

CORNELL
-------

     Scott Brim and Jeff Honig participated in IETF Working Groups.  The
     Multicast OSPF Working Group reached agreement on extensions to
     OSPF to support multicasting.  In the BGP Working Group, we
     presented five alternative designs for multicast support which had
     various advantages and disadvantages.  The group was not able to
     decide which one to adopt during the meeting, but through later
     discussions we are on the verge of choosing one (basic reverse path
     forwarding), after which prototype implementations can begin.

     At the DARPA Networking PI meeting, Scott Brim gave a short talk on
     the current status of multicast routing extensions to mainstream
     routing protocols.

     Gated:

        Pattern matching code for route filtering based on BGP ASpath is
        now integrated, but not tested; we are waiting for Dennis
        Ferguson to finish his implementation of BGP3 and plan release
        them together.

        The Gatedaemon Project has a new address.  Electronic mail to
        the gated maintainers should be sent to gated@gated.cornell.edu
        (the mailing list is gated-people@gated.cornell.edu). The
        telephone number is +1-607-255-5510.  Paper mail should be sent



Westine                                                        [Page 10]

Internet Monthly Report                                       March 1991


        to:
                 Gatedaemon Project
                 Information Technologies/Network Resources
                 143 Caldwell Hall
                 Cornell University
                 Ithaca, NY  14853-2602

     Scott Brim <swb@nr-tech.cit.cornell.edu> and
     Jeffrey C Honig <jch@nr-tech.cit.cornell.edu>

FEDERATION OF AMERICAN RESEARCH NETWORKS (FARNET)
-------------------------------------------------

     The following items were covered at a FARNET board meeting at the
     conclusion ofNet-91 in Washington, DC:

     FARNET plans to disseminate the strategic planning document to its
     planning committee and membership for their review, comment, and
     approval and that this process will be followed by public
     dissemination.

     FARNET is beginning to search for an executive director to
     implement the programs it adopted at the last meeting.

     The Spring meeting will be April 30 and May 1 in Austin, TX.  Part
     of the meeting will be devoted to a K-12 teachers' seminar.  A
     proposed agenda for this meeting should be forthcoming soon.

     The August meeting will be be held in Bozeman, Montana on August
     12-13.

     Currently, FARNET is comprised of 28 member institutions.

     Carlos Robles <roblesc@cerf.net>

HIGHER EDUCATION AUTHORITY NETWORK (HEANET)
-------------------------------------------

     This is the Higher Education Authority Network, and consists of
     seven university institutions in Ireland.  These seven sites are
     connected over low speed lines to the public packet-switched
     network.









Westine                                                        [Page 11]

Internet Monthly Report                                       March 1991


     In February 1991, one of the sites (University College Dublin -
     UCD) connected its campus network to the RIPE networks by means of
     an X.25 connection over IXI to NIKHEF in Amsterdam.  This offers
     (nominal) 64K IP services between UCD and RIPE.  Access to NSFNET
     and other networks is available from EASInet via the gateway at
     CERN.

     Mike Norris <MNORRIS%IRLEARN@pucc.PRINCETON.EDU>

ISI
---

     GIGABIT NETWORKING

     Greg Finn, Danny Cohen, and Bob Braden, attended the DARPA
     Principal Investigator's meeting in Monterey, California, March
     25-28, 1991 and Bob Braden chaired a session on DARTNET.  Joyce
     Reynolds attended the IETF meeting in St.  Louis IETF, March 11-15.

     ATOMIC

     Greg Finn held discussions with Dr. Seitz of Caltech and his staff
     on the MOSAIC processor, a VME host interface and its software
     prototyping environment.  A substantial amount of time was spent
     reading the Caltech MOSAIC group's papers.  Limited discussions
     have taken place with others at ISI concerning feasible uses for
     MOSAIC technology in packet filtering and possible use in video
     applications.

     INFRASTRUCTURE

     Seven RFCs were published this month.

        RFC 1208:  Jacobsen, O., and D. Lynch, "A Glossary of
                   Networking Terms", Interop, Inc., March 1991.

        RFC 1209:  Piscitello, D., and J. Lawrence, "The Transmission
                   of IP Datagrams over the SMDS Service", Bell
                   Communications Research, March 1991.

        RFC 1210:  Cerf, V. (CNRI), P. Kirstein (UCL), and B. Randell
                   Newcastle on Tyne), "Network and Infrastructure
                   User Requirements for Transatlantic Research
                   Collaboration Brussels, July 16-18, and Washington
                   July 24-25, 1990", March 1991.






Westine                                                        [Page 12]

Internet Monthly Report                                       March 1991


        RFC 1211:  Westine, A., and J. Postel, "Problems with the
                   Maintenance of Large Mailing Lists, USC/Information
                   Sciences Institute, March 1991.

        RFC 1212:  Rose, M., (PSI), and K. McCloghrie (Hughes Lan
                   Systems), "Concise MIB Definitions", March 1991.

        RFC 1213:  K. McCloghrie (Hughes Lan Systems), and Rose, M.,
                   (PSI), "Management Information Base for Network
                   Management of TCP/IP-based internets: MIB-II",
                   March 1991.

        RFC 1215:  Rose, M., "A Convention for Defining Traps for
                   use with the SNMP, Performance Systems
                   International, March 1991.

        One paper was published.

        Westine, A., A. Deschon, J. Postel, and C. Ward, "The Intermail
                  and the Commercial Mail Relay Project", ConneXions,
                  Volume 5, No. 3, March 1991.

     Ann Westine (Westine@ISI.EDU)

     MULTIMEDIA CONFERENCING

     To enable workstation-based conferencing on a wide scale across the
     Internet, we need to integrate real-time services into the existing
     IP infrastructure.  An open question is what new mechanisms must be
     added to provide real-time services.  This question was discussed
     extensively in the Connection-Oriented IP Working Group at the IETF
     meeting in St. Louis, and on the sidelines at the DARPA Networking
     Principal Investigators meeting in Monterey, where Steve Casner
     gave a presentation on DARTnet Voice and Video.  We expect the
     DARTnet experiments to help answer this question over the next
     year.

     One such experiment is the integration of the ST-II protocol (RFC
     1190) with the ISI/BBN teleconferencing system.  Work is underway
     to adapt the the packet voice program, VT, and the packet video
     program, PVP, to use the ST-II socket interface that has been
     implemented in the SunOS4.1 SPARCstation kernel by BBN.  ST-II
     replaces ST-I, which had previously been built into each of these
     applications.

     On the multisite conferencing front, PVP was enhanced to handle 5-
     site conferences.  For the Concept codec, which can simultaneously
     display multiple video streams in quadrants on the video monitor,



Westine                                                        [Page 13]

Internet Monthly Report                                       March 1991


     the local site is normally displayed in one of the quadrants if the
     number of sites is less than five.  In a five-site conference, the
     local image is replaced by the fourth remote site.  For the
     PictureTel codec, only one site can be displayed at a time but
     multisite conferences are now possible using receiver-selected
     floor control.  Each site can independently choose which remote
     site to view.  We demonstrated to DARPA a conference of the three
     sites ISI, BBN and RIACS.

     Annette DeSchon, Dave Walden, Eve Schooler, Steve Casner
     (deschon@ISI.EDU, djwalden@ISI.EDU, schooler@ISI.EDU,
     casner@ISI.EDU)

LOS NETTOS
----------

     The TRW network connection was moved to their new site.

     Walt Prue (Prue@ISI.EDU)

MITRE Corporation
-----------------

     Shari Galitzer, Bill Barns, and Walt Lazear attended the IETF
     meetings in St. Louis, where OSI addressing was the hot topic (for
     MITRE and the regionals).  Walt presented his draft OSI routing
     architecture for the Network OSI Operations WG, which stirred up
     lots of useful discussion.  Walt and Bill also attended the PSTP
     working group on OSI Registration to work on an NSAP structure and
     usage for DDN.

     Forrest Palmer presented a briefing to MITRE and sponsor personnel
     on the SNMP protocol concepts and formats.  Shari, Bill, and Walt
     attended a demonstration and discussion of the BBN Integrated
     Management Workstation (IMW) commissioned by DCA.  This is an SNMP
     and HMP based graphical net management tool for monitoring MIB I
     nodes and Mailbridges.  The IMW is being used by the Cambridge
     monitoring center and the NearNet NOC.

     Forrest Palmer worked with SAIC staff to establish their IDPR
     experiments on the Internet Engineering Testbed.  Forrest installed
     an X-kernel implementation, which has helped us expand the testbed
     by utilizing old Sun-3/50 workstations.  Forrest is also busy
     planning for upgrading the 16 Sun-3s to SunOS 4.1.1 and SunNet OSI
     7.0.  This upgrade requires coordination with the 10 experiments
     running on the testbed.  Mike Saintcross has been upgrading
     hardware at the DCA portion of the I.E. Testbed to accomodate
     running the IMW mentioned above.



Westine                                                        [Page 14]

Internet Monthly Report                                       March 1991


     Walt and John McGuthry worked to establish CLNS routing on the
     Testbed's cisco routers and Sun workstations.  AlterNet and NSFNET
     staff were involved and the month's-end result was successful
     pinging to CERN (Switzerland) and the NSFNET NOC.  We are awaiting
     some fixes from cisco before OSI testing with NorduNet can proceed.
     John is also converting the U.  Wisconsin Argo OSI code to use the
     GOSIP 2 NSAP format.  His next task will be to port the Argo code
     to run over the SunNet OSI 7.0 lower stack.

     The Internet Management effort has obtained some much-needed demo
     space and are working with facilities engineers to modernize the
     space.  We're extending the I.E. Testbed into the area with
     twisted-pair Ethernet and starting to refurbish the power
     conditioner and air conditioners.  Next month we'll move systems
     into place.

     Walt Lazear (lazear@gateway.mitre.org)

NNSC, UCAR/BOLT BERANEK and NEWMAN, INC.
----------------------------------------

     Karen Roubicek attended the IETF in St. Louis, Missouri.  Karen
     participated ina workshop on Computer Networks in Radiology
     Research sponsored by the NationalScience Foundation, National
     Library of Medicine, National Cancer Institute andthe American
     College of Radiology.  Karen also attended the National Net'91
     conference held in Washington, D.C.

     The NNSC began distribution of the 9th issue of the NSF Network
     News.

     The NNSC distributed additions to chapters 2 and 5 of the Internet
     Resource Guide.

     The NNSC also began distribution of the NNSC Tour of the Internet.
     The Internet Tour is available for anonymous ftp on NNSC.NSF.NET,
     in the directory internet-tour, filename Internet-Tour.sit.hqx.
     The Internet Tour README file is attached.

     Tour of the Internet:

     The Internet Tour is a HyperCard 2 stack for Macintosh computers.
     (HyperCard 2 requires Macintosh system 6.0.5 or higher.) The three
     Internet Tour files have been compressed using StuffIt 1.5.1, and
     converted to binhex format.  In order to use the files, you need to
     reverse the process.  To do this you need the Macintosh application
     StuffIt 1.5.1.  The files take up about 760k when converted to
     their original format.  (You'll need at least twice that much space



Westine                                                        [Page 15]

Internet Monthly Report                                       March 1991


     to do the conversion.)

     FTP the file Internet-Tour.sit.hqx using a text option; then
     transfer it to your Mac.  Use StuffIt's "Decode binhex file" option
     (on the Other menu).  Thiscreates a new file in addition to the
     original one: Internet-Tour.sit.  Next choose "Open archive" from
     StuffIt's File menu.  Open Internet-Tour.sit, and click the
     "Extract" button at the bottom.  This will create three files:
     Internet Tour, Internet Local Info, and Internet Tour doc.

     by Corinne Carroll <ccarroll@nnsc.nsf.net>

NSF BACKBONE (Merit)
-------------------

     The inbound packet count for March 1991 totaled 7,026,153,681
     packets on the T1 infrastructure.  This was an increase of 16.53%
     over the February 1991 total of 6,029,601,114 inbound packets. As
     of March, 2501 networks are announced via the NSFNET.  Of that
     total, 757 represent foreign networks, including the newest foreign
     host location, the Netherlands.

     Production traffic continues to be phased to the T3 infrastructure.
     Routing for 37 nets now occurs on the T3 NSFNET.  Planning
     continues for the deployment of T3 to NSFNET sites.  FDDI
     interfaces deployed at Palo Alto, CA and Pittsburgh, PA were
     instrumental in the demonstrations presented at NET '91.
     Operational NSFNET traffic is routed via FDDI at Champaign-Urbana,
     IL and San Diego, CA as well as Palo Alto and Pittsburgh.

     National NET '91, "Towards a National Information Infrastructure,"
     convened at Loews L'enfant Plaza Hotel in Washington, D.C. on March
     20, 21 and 22.  The NSFNET partnership provided T3 connectivity for
     several demonstrations of supercomputing technology:  MCI installed
     the T3 circuit to the L'enfant Plaza and a T1 circuit between Ann
     Arbor and L'enfant Plaza, IBM supplied the routers, and Merit
     Network, Inc. was responsible for the local area network at at the
     conference as well as the overall coordination of the facility
     installation and demonstrations.  Bob Stovall of the Merit Network
     Systems Hardware Support group deployed and managed the LAN.  Eric
     Aupperle, President of Merit Network, Inc., Ellen Hoffman,
     assistant to Aupperle, Laura Kelleher and Susan Calcari, of
     Merit/NSFNET Information Services, and Elise Gerich of Merit/NSFNET
     Internet Engineering attended this event on behalf of the NSFNET
     project.

     Glee Cady and Laura Kelleher represented Merit/NSFNET Information
     Services at the Coalition for Networked Information (CNI) meeting



Westine                                                        [Page 16]

Internet Monthly Report                                       March 1991


     held in Washington, D.C.  Kelleher and Cady are active in the
     Directories and Resource Information Services working group, which
     discussed questions of how to gather, store and access information.

     Several representatives of Merit Network, Inc. attended the spring
     meeting of the IETF in St. Louis, MO:  Dale Johnson, manager of the
     Merit Network Operations Center; Susan Hares, Elise Gerich, and
     Dave Katz of Merit/NSFNET Internet Engineering; Allan Rubens, Glenn
     McGregor, Chris Weider, and Bill Norton of Merit Network
     Engineering; Pat Smith of Merit/NSFNET Information Services and
     Dana Sitzler of the Merit Technical Support Group.  In addition to
     participating on the Network Information Services Infrastructure
     working group, Smith attended the inaugural meeting of the User
     Services Area Council, chartered to promote and encourage the
     creative exchange of international user service needs and concepts.
     Gerich presented the NSFNET status report, Norton gave an overview
     of statistics gathering for the NSFNET, and Katz, Sitzler and
     Weider chaired their respective working groups.

     "Making Your NSFNET Connection Count" will be sponsored by
     Merit/NSFNET Information Services in Ann Arbor, Michigan on May 20
     and 21.  This informative seminar will focus on issues of interest
     to campus computing leaders, information systems and networking
     administrators, educational liaisons, librarians, and educators who
     want to learn more about national networking.  Among the scheduled
     speakers are Paul Evan Peters, Director of the Coalition for
     Networked Information; Carol Parkhurst, ALA/LITA; Al Rogers, The
     FrEd Mail Foundation; Jim Knighton, NASA; John Hankins, CICNET;
     Dana Sitzler, MichNet; and Douglas Van Houweling, the University of
     Michigan.  For further information send an electronic message to
     seminar@merit.edu or telephone 1-800-66-MERIT.

     Jo Ann Ward (jward@merit.edu)

PREPNET
-------

     During March, four new members have joined PREPnet.  Thomas
     Jefferson University will be connected to the Philadelphia hub at
     56Kbps, HSLC (Health Sciences Libraries Consortium) will also be
     connected to the Philadelphia hub, but at T-1.  Moravian College
     will be connected to the Allentown hub at 56Kbps.  And, HRB Systems
     will be connected to the State College hub at T-1.  The State
     College hub is scheduled to open in June 1991.

     PREPnet NIC (prepnet+@andrew.cmu.edu)





Westine                                                        [Page 17]

Internet Monthly Report                                       March 1991


SRI
----

     Internet registry activities in March included the assignment of
     2,195 IP network numbers.  The cumulative total of all assigned IP
     numbers is now 29,133.  There are now a total of 1,234 assigned
     Autonomous System numbers (ASNs) asssigned.

     There are currently a total of 2,544 domains registered with the
     NIC, including 61 at the top level, 2,334 at the second level, and
     55 third-level MIL domains.

                             Cumulative IP Network Statistics

     Month/Year                       Class

                             A       B       C           Total

     Mar. 1991               41      4,520   24,572      29,133

     Feb. 1991               39      4,347   22,552      26,938

     Jan. 1991               39      4,246   21,731      26,016

     Dec. 1990               36      4,305   21,811      26,152

     Nov. 1990               35      4,198   21,149      25,382

     Mary Stahl (stahl@nisc.sri.com)

UCL
----

     An experiment in remote video data retrieval was carried out
     between Bellcore and UCL. Michael Lesk made available a filesystem
     holding a recording of a talk by Dave Clark from last year. This
     was "played back" over the Internet to UCL. The audio was
     acceptable, but the "video" (actually frame by frame NFS retrieval
     from files) ran at about 1 per second. (Given the bandwidth of the
     link, this was at about the limit for 31kbyte frame sizes). The
     "talk" was eduacational.

     Jon Crowcroft gave a talk at Europarc on the UCL multi-media
     conferencing work (work sponsored by both DARPA and RACE).

     Under the chair of Steve Kille, the OSI Directory Group have now
     produced a number of IETF drafts:




Westine                                                        [Page 18]

Internet Monthly Report                                       March 1991


     strategy.txt
     strategy.ps

        A proposed strategy for deploying an OSI Internet Directory
        S.E. Kille
        March 1991
        Abstract:

        This document is a first cut at describing an overall strategy
        for deploying an OSI Directory on the Internet.  This is a draft
        document, and does not carry any implications of agreement on
        policy.

     goals.txt
     goals.ps

        Overall plan of the IETF Working Group on OSI Directories
           (OSI-DS) to build an Internet Directory using X.500
        S.E. Kille
        February 1991
        Abstract:

        The IETF has established a Working Group on OSI Directory
        Services (IETF-OSI-DS). A major component of the initial work of
        this group is to establish a technical framework for
        establishing a Directory Service on the Internet, making use of
        the X.500 protocols and services [CCI88b].  This document
        summarises the plan established by the working group to achieve
        this, and describes a number of RFCs which the working group
        will write in order to establish the technical framework.

        This document has now been submitted as an RFC.

     nsap.ps
     nsap.txt

        "An Interim Approach to use of Network Addresses"
        S.E. Kille
        draft-ucl-kille-networkaddresses-02.txt, .ps
        January 1991
        Abstract:

        The OSI Directory specifies an encoding of Presentation Address,
        which utilises OSI Network Addresses as defined in the OSI
        Network Layer standards [CCI88 ] [ISO87a ]. The OSI Directory,
        and any OSI application utilising the OSI Directory must be able
        to deal with these Network Addresses.  Currently, most
        environments cannot cope with them. It is not reasonable or



Westine                                                        [Page 19]

Internet Monthly Report                                       March 1991


        desirable for groups wishing to investigate and use OSI
        Applications in conjunction with the OSI Directory to have to
        wait for the lower layers to sort out. This note is a proposal
        for mechanisms to utilise Network Addresses.

     string.ps
     string.txt

        A String encoding of Presentation Address
        draft-ucl-kille-presentationaddress-02.txt, ps
        S.E. Kille
        November 1990
        Abstract:

        There are a number of environments where a simple string
        encoding of Presentation Address is desirable. This
        specification defines such a representation.

     domain.ps
     domain.txt

        Domains and X.500
        S.E. Kille
        March 1991
        Abstract:

        This INTERNET--DRAFT considers X.500 in relation to Internet and
        UK Domains.  A basic model of X.500 providing a higher level and
        more descriptive naming structure is emphasised.  In addition, a
        mapping of domains onto X.500 is proposed, which gives a range
        of new management and user facilities over and above those
        currently available.  This specification proposes an
        experimental new mechanism to access and manage domain
        information on the Internet and in the UK Academic Community.

     ufn.ps
     ufn.txt

        Using the OSI Directory to achieve User Friendly Naming
        S.E. Kille
        March 1991
        Abstract:

        The OSI Directory has user friendly naming as a goal.  A simple
        minded usage of the directory does not achieve this. Two aspects
        not achieved are:





Westine                                                        [Page 20]

Internet Monthly Report                                       March 1991


          o A user oriented notation
          o Guessability

        This proposal sets out some conventions for representing names
        in a friendly manner, and shows how this can be used to achieve
        really friendly naming.  This then leads to a specification of a
        standard format for representing names, and to procedures to
        resolve them.

     repl-req.ps
     repl-req.txt

        Replication Requirement to provide an Internet Directory
            using X.500
        S.E. Kille
        March  1991
        draft-ietf-osids-replication-01.txt, .ps
        Abstract:

        A companion document discussed an overall framework for
        deploying X.500 on the Internet [Kil90 ].   This document
        considers certain deficiencies of the 1988 standard, which need
        to be addressed before an effective open Internet Directory can
        be established [CCI88 ].   The only areas considered are primary
        problems, to which solutions must be found before a pilot can be
        deployed.   This INTERNET--DRAFT concerns itself with
        deficiencies which can only be addressed by use of additional
        protocol or procedures for distributed operation.

     na.txt

        P. Barker
        S.E. Kille
        March 1991
        The COSINE and Internet X.500 Schema
        Abstract:

        This document suggests an X.500 Directory Schema, or Naming
        Architecture, for use in the COSINE and Internet X.500 pilots.
        The schema is independent of any specific implementation.  As
        well as indicating support for the standard object classes and
        attributes, a large number of generally useful object classes
        and attributes are also defined.  An appendix to this document
        includes a machine processable version of the schema

        This document also proposes a mechanism for allowing the schema
        to evolve in line with commonly held requirements.  Proformas to
        support this process are included.



Westine                                                        [Page 21]

Internet Monthly Report                                       March 1991


        It is important to note that this version of the document is a
        draft, and comments on the updating mechanisms are particularly
        welcome.  Corrections and additions to the schema should now be
        sent the list, as described within.

     repl-sol.ps

        Replication and Distributed Operations extensions to provide
           an Internet Directory using X.500
        S.E. Kille
        March 1991
        Abstract:

        Some requirements on extensions to X.500 are described in the
        INTERNET--DRAFT [Kil90b ], in order to build an Internet
        Directory as described in the INTERNET--DRAFT [Kil90a ].  This
        document specifies a set of solutions to the problems raised.
        These solutions are based on some work done for the QUIPU
        implementation, and demonstrated to be effective in a number of
        directory pilots.  By documenting a de facto standard, rapid
        progress can be made towards a full-scale pilot.  These
        procedures are an INTERIM approach.  There are known
        deficiencies, both in terms of manageability and scalability.
        Transition to standard approaches are planned when appropriate
        standards are available.  This INTERNET--DRAFT will be obsoleted
        at this point.

     structure.ps
     structure.txt

        P. Barker
        S.E. Kille
        February 1991
        Naming Guidelines for Directory Pilots
        Abstract:

        Deployment of a Directory will benefit from following certain
        guidelines.  This document defines a number of guidelines which
        are recommended.  Conformance to these guidelines will be
        recommended for national pilots.











Westine                                                        [Page 22]

Internet Monthly Report                                       March 1991


     dsanaming.ps
     dsanaming.txt

        DSA Naming
        S.E. Kille
        March 1991
        Abstract:

        This INTERNET--DRAFT describes a few problems with DSA Naming as
        currently deployed in pilot exercises, and suggests a new
        approach.  This approach is suggested for use in the Internet
        Directory Pilot.

        I believe this note to be an important step forward, as it
        begins to evolve a clear model of a Directory Management Domain.

     contacts.txt

        Internet Network Infrastructure Information In X.500
        C. Weider
        M. Knopper
        March 1991
        Abstract:

        As the OSI Directory progresses into an operational structure
        which is being increasingly used as a primary resource for
        Directory information, it was percieved that having the Internet
        Site Contacts and some limited network information in the
        Directory would be immediately useful and would also provide the
        preliminary framework for some distributed NIC functions.  The
        first section of this paper describes the schema used to contain
        this information; the second section describes the DIT structure
        built for this information.

     qos.ps
     qos.txt

        Handling QOS (Quality of service) in the Directory
        S.E. Kille
        March 1991
        Abstract:

        This document describes a mechanism for specifying the Quality
        of Service for DSA Operations and Data in the Internet Pilot
        Directory Service [Kil90].

     John Crowcroft (j.crowcroft@CS.UCL.AC.UK)




Westine                                                        [Page 23]

Internet Monthly Report                                       March 1991


UNIVERSITY OF DELAWARE
----------------------


     1.   In the light of recent discussions and further detail work, we
          have further refined the design of our Highball high speed,
          wide-area network, which is described in a recent technical
          report. We are gearing up to etch some silicon and carve some
          circuit traces and have hired some student grunts to devise
          interface boards. We are in process of ordering node
          processors (SPARCstations) and long leadtime components.


     2.   Charlie Boncelet, Paul Schragger and Dave Mills participated
          in the DARPA Principal Investigator Meeting in rainy Monterey
          and presented a briefing on the Highball Project.

          Dave Mills (Mills@UDEL.EDU)

DIRECTORY SERVICES ACTIVITIES
-----------------------------

     Beginning this month, the Internet Monthly Report will contain a
     section on the development of directory services that are for, or
     effect, the Internet.  We would like to encourage any organization
     with related news on directory services development to use this
     forum for publishing brief monthly news items.  Current reports
     include:

             o IETF OSIDS & DISI Working Groups
             o Field Operational X.500 Project
                - ISI
                - Merit
                - PSI
                - SRI
             o North American Directory Forum
             o PARADISE Project
             o PSI WHITE PAGES PILOT

IETF OSIDS & DISI WORKING GROUPS
--------------------------------

     Refer to IETF section for the OSIDS and DISI working group reports.








Westine                                                        [Page 24]

Internet Monthly Report                                       March 1991


FOX -- FIELD OPERATIONAL X.500 PROJECT
--------------------------------------

     The FOX project is a NSF and DARPA funded effort to provide a basis
     for operational X.500 deployment in the NREN/Internet.  This work
     is being carried out at Merit, NSYERNet/PSI, SRI and ISI.  ISI is
     the main contractor and responsible for project oversight.

     There are two primary thrusts of the FOX project:

     1. X.500 Infrastructure

     It is important that multiple interoperable platforms be available
     for deployment.  FOX plans to examine and test the interoperability
     of the Quipu and NIST-X.500 (Custos) implementations, and DNANS-
     X.500 if possible.  In addition, FOX will explore X.500 interfaces
     to conventional database systems (one target is Sybase), an
     alternate OS platform (VM) for X.500 servers, and X-window based
     user interfaces.

     2. X.500 Applications

     A long-range goal is to facilitate the use of X.500 for real
     Internet applications.  FOX will first focus on making network
     infrastructure information available through X.500.  This includes
     network and AS site contacts, topology information, and the NIC
     WHOIS service.

     A centrally managed X.500 version will be the first phase of a
     WHOIS service.  Providing an X.500 version of a well-known widely-
     used service should promote the use of X.500 by Internet users.  In
     addition, this effort will provide experience in designing X.500
     applications.  However, the managability of this scheme will be
     short-lived, so the next step will be a design for a distributed
     version of WHOIS.

     Finally, it is critical for Internet X.500 efforts to be aligned
     with directory service efforts that are ongoing in other
     communities.  FOX participants are involved in, or are otherwise
     tracking these efforts, and information about FOX activities will
     be publicly available.

     Steve Hotz (hotz@isi.edu)








Westine                                                        [Page 25]

Internet Monthly Report                                       March 1991


     ISI
     ---

        ISI has been pushing to get the subcontracts completed and in
        place, and has applied for a no-cost extension to the end of the
        year for the FOX project.  A similar extension will be made to
        the subcontracts.

        A telephone conference is scheduled during the week of April
        15th.

        Steve Hotz (hotz@ISI.EDU)

     MERIT
     -----

        Several things have been happening at MERIT in conjunction with
        the FOX project:

        1: Merit has added another person to the X.500 crew: Richard
           Conto, who will be working on FOX approximately 1/2 time.

        2: ISODE 6.8i has been installed behind both of Merit's X.500
           DSAs (directory servers).  Merit operates a DSA on merit.edu
           for the Merit staff and for network information, and also
           a DSA on sprint.com for the Sprintmail X.400 gateway.

        3: One Internet Draft has gone out from Merit's FOX project
           team: the title is "Interim Schema for Network Infrastructure
           Information in X.500".  It contains a schema definition for
           the Site Contacts portion of the directory information tree
           (DIT - X.500's hierarchical name space).  Two more IDs are
           in progress: one on a long term DIT structure for network
           information, and one on representing NSAPs in X.500.

        4: Chris Weider of Merit is chairing a new X.500 related IETF
           working group.  The working group's name is "Directory
           Information Services (pilot) Infra-structure Working Group"
           or DISI for short.  This working group is concerned with
           developing an "Administrator's Guide" to Directory Services
           through X.500, and with promoting the growth of the X.500
           infrastructure.

        5: Merit staff are using a Macintosh X.500 client written by
           Mark Smith, Bryan Beecher, and Tim Howes of the University
           of Michigan.  This client is very nice, and uses Tim Howes'
           lightweight "Dixie" protocol to talk to the DSA.




Westine                                                        [Page 26]

Internet Monthly Report                                       March 1991


        6: The X.500 directory is now used to maintain and generate the
           production "aliases" file for the Sprintmail X.400 gateway.
           Previously the aliases file was edited as a text file by
           Sprint staff and updated manually.  Now the Sprint staff and
           some of their customers use an e-mail based command protocol
           to modify the alias entries.

        Chris Weider (clw@merit.edu)

     PSI
     ---

        Awaiting official approval/funding as of April 1, 1991.

        Marshall Rose (mrose@cheetah.ca.psi.com)

     SRI
     ----

        In order to provide an interim capability offering network
        information via the Directory, SRI has begun the task of
        replicating a subset of the WHOIS information in the Directory.
        SRI has analyzed the WHOIS database and selected this subset.
        Review by and discussion among the FOX project, participants
        provided valuable feedback for finalizing the selected subset.
        The development of a schema to support the WHOIS information is
        underway and will be completed in early April.

        SRI developed a program to produce a QUIPU EDB load file for
        WHOIS individual information.  It uses the pilotPerson object as
        a prototype, as a means to anticipate potential data conversion
        problems (e.g. size mismatches).  Other more straightforward
        conversions will be required, but the following two have been
        identified as mismatches:

          - WHOIS address field maximum greater than postalAddress

          - reversed name ordering.  Names in WHOIS are last name
            first, whereas commonName suggests first name first.

        The other WHOIS entities (e.g., computer, domain) will be
        analyzed in a similar manner as part of the conversion process.

        Ruth Lang attended the twentieth IETF held March 11-15 in St.
        Louis.  At the kick-off meeting of the Directory Information
        Services (pilot) Infrastructure Working Group (DISI), two
        RFC/FYI documents were identified as output from this working
        group.  Ruth, along with Russ Wright of LBL, will co-author one



Westine                                                        [Page 27]

Internet Monthly Report                                       March 1991


        of these, a catalogue of X.500 implementations.  Work has begun
        to develop the survey form that will be used to gather
        information on the implementations.  The survey itself will be
        initiated in early April.

        Ruth Lang (rlang@NISC.SRI.COM)

NORTH AMERICAN DIRECTORY FORUM
-------------------------------

     The North American Directory Forum (NADF) is a collection of
     organizations which offer, or plan to offer, public Directory
     services in North America, based on the CCITT X.500
     Recommendations.

     The NADF met in Reston, VA the week of March 18-22, 1991.  Outputs
     from this meeting include NADF-123, "A Naming Scheme for c=US",
     which the NADF is widely circulating for comment prior to their
     next meeting in mid-July.  An ASCII version of NADF-123 has been
     published as RFC-1218.

     The NADF-123 document proposes the use of existing civil
     infrastructure for naming objects under c=US.  This has the
     advantage of using existing registration authorities and not
     establishing any new ones (the document simply maps names assigned
     by existing authorities into different portions of the c=US DIT).
     The NADF-123 document is intended as the basis for X.500 names in
     the US for the long-term; it is important that interested parties
     get a copy, review it, and return comments.


     A second output, which is still undergoing development, is NADF-
     128, a preliminary draft on "Mapping the DIT onto Multiple ADDMDs".
     This describes how the c=US portion of the DIT is mapped onto DSAs
     and what service-providers must minimally share in order to achieve
     a working public directory.  The next revision of this document
     will likely be ASCII-ized and published as an informational RFC.

     Marshall Rose (mrose@cheetah.ca.psi.com)

PARADISE
--------

     This is the first report from the PARADISE project based at the
     Department of Computer Science, University College London (UCL).

     PARADISE is a sub-project of the broader COSINE project sponsored
     under the umbrella of EUREKA by eighteen participating countries



Westine                                                        [Page 28]

Internet Monthly Report                                       March 1991


     and aimed at promoting OSI to the academic, industrial and
     governmental research and development organisations in Europe.  The
     countries involved are those of the EC, EFTA plus Yugoslavia; that
     is: Austria, Belgium, Denamark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece,
     Holland, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Norway, Portugal, Spain,
     Sweden, Switzerland, United Kingdom, and Yugoslavia.

     The partners funded by PARADISE besides UCL are:

     -    the Networks Group at the University of London Computer
          Centre (ULCC), which is a service-oriented organisation
          providing a range of facilities to the academic community in
          London and the entry point into the UK for IXI, the COSINE
          international X.25 backbone;
     -    X-Tel Services Ltd, a software company based in Nottingham
          which currently provides service support to the UK Academic
          X.500 pilot; and
     -    PTT Telematic Systems from the Netherlands, which in turn
          has subcontracted the Swiss and Finnish PTTs, and whose
          involvement is to create a forum for discussion on X.500
          among the European carrier administrations.

     The project also aims to have representation from all the
     participating countries, which in the majority of cases are the
     existing X.500 national pilots.

     Of the 18 countries involved, 12 are registered in the tree,
     including Ireland and Italy whose nodes were taken up this month.
     Most countries are using the QUIPU implementation developed at UCL.
     However, a French group have developed PIZARRO, which will form the
     basis of the emerging French pilot and, in Italy, a Torino-based
     company Systems Wizards are using DirWiz, which is curently the
     sole representative from Italy in the tree.

     PARADISE recently announced an operational service providing a
     central configuration DSA with connectivity via IPSS, IXI, JANET
     (UK Joint Academic Network) and the Internet.  This DSA contains
     the "root of the world" node and provides the glue at the top of
     the international DIT.  By this summer a central DUA will be
     installed with public access via ULCC.  Multilingual versions of
     this interface will be made available later in the project.  Both
     these central services will be provided by ULCC, which will be
     offering a help desk with telephone and e-mail support.

     David Goodman (d.goodman@cs.ucl.ac.uk) PARADISE Project Manager






Westine                                                        [Page 29]

Internet Monthly Report                                       March 1991


PSI WHITE PAGES PILOT PROJECT
-----------------------------

     As of 91-03-27: There are 74 sites under c=US, 66 operating as
     PRDMDs.  New additions this month: Sun Microsystems Incorporated
     Steve Kille's quality-of-service object classes and attributes
     (defined in draft-ietf-osids-qos-00.txt) were implemented.

     The attributes and object classes defined in NADF-123 (RFC-1218)
     were implemented.

     Based on NADF-123 and Kille's draft-ietf-osids-dsanaming-00.txt, an
     initial draft of a transition scheme for the c=US DIT is being
     drafted.  Pilot participants were informed about the upcoming
     transition, and will receive the next version of the transition
     scheme, which is nearly complete.

     Marshall Rose (mrose@cheetah.ca.psi.com)

































Westine                                                        [Page 30]
