





~












JUNE 1991


INTERNET MONTHLY REPORTS
------------------------

The purpose of these reports is to communicate to the Internet Research
Group the accomplishments, milestones reached, or problems discovered by
the participating organizations.

     This report is for Internet information purposes only, and is not
     to be quoted in other publications without permission from the
     submitter.

Each organization is expected to submit a 1/2 page report on the first
business day of the month describing the previous month's activities.
These reports should be submitted via network mail to Ann Westine
(Westine@ISI.EDU) or Karen Roubicek (Roubicek@NNSC.NSF.NET).

TABLE OF CONTENTS

  INTERNET ACTIVITIES BOARD

     IAB MESSAGE  . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  4
     INTERNET RESEARCH REPORTS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  5
        AUTONOMOUS NETWORKS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  5
        END-TO-END SERVICES  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  5
     INTERNET ENGINEERING REPORTS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  6










Westine                                                         [Page 1]

Internet Monthly Report                                        JUNE 1991


  Internet Projects

     BOLT BERANEK AND NEWMAN, INC.,  . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 21
     CERFNET . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 21
     CICNET. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 21
     CORNELL . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 22
     CSUNET (CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY NETWORK). . . . . . . page 22
     ISI . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 23
     JVNCNET, NORTH EAST RESEARCH REGIONAL NETWORK . . . . . . page 24
     LOS NETTOS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 26
     MITRE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 27
     NEW ENGLAND ACADEMIC AND RESEARCH NETWORK . . . . . . . . page 28
     NNSC, UCAR/BOLT BERANEK and NEWMAN, INC., . . . . . . . . page 28
     NSFNET BACKBONE, MERIT. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 28
     NDRE and NTA-RD . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 30
     PITTSBURGH SUPERCOMPUTER CENTER . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 30
     PREPnet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 31
     SAIC. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 32
     SRI . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 32
     TEXAS HIGHER EDUCATION NETWORK  . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 33
     UCL . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 34
     UDEL. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 34
     WISCNET . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 35

  DIRECTORY SERVICES ACTIVITIES

     DIRECTORY SERVICES MESSAGE  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 36
     IETF OSIDS & DISI WORKING GROUPS. . . . . . . . . . . . . page 36
     FOX - FIELD OPERATIONAL X.500 PROJECT . . . . . . . . . . page 37
        ISI. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 37
        MERIT. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 37
        PSI. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 38
        SRI. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 38
     OSI IMPLEMENTOR'S WORKSHOP (OIW). . . . . . . . . . . . . page 39
     PARADISE PROJECT. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 40
     PSI DARPA/NNT X.500 Project . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 40
     PSI WHITE PAGES PILOT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 41

  CALENDER OF EVENTS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 42












Westine                                                         [Page 2]

Internet Monthly Report                                        JUNE 1991



IAB MESSAGE

     A. NEW IAB CHAIR-ELECT

     The Internet Activities Board is pleased to announce that Lyman
     Chapin has agreed to serve as its chairman beginning July 1, 1992.
     During the period July 1, 1991 to June 30, 1992, he will serve as
     chairman-elect and work with Vint Cerf, who will continue as
     chairman.

     Chapin is employed at Bolt Beranek and Newman as its chief network
     architect.  In addition to his duties on the IAB, he is also
     chairman of ANSI X3S3.3, and has just been elected chairman of ACM
     SIGCOMM for 1991-1993.

     B. INTERNET SOCIETY

     The phenomenal growth of the Internet, and particularly the
     increasing vendor and commercial involvement, have presented new
     challenges for the IAB and its task forces.  The IAB continues to
     explore policies and procedures to manage the Internet and its
     evolution during this explosive growth, while maintaining as much
     as possible of the traditions which have led to that success:
     openness and cooperation within the Internet community.

     The incorporation of the Internet Society as a non-profit
     professional society will provide a legal framework for the IAB.
     The fact that the IAB has no official standing has been both a
     strength and a weakness for the Internet endeavor.  The desire to
     address the weakness without losing the strength is one motivation
     for the creation of the Internet Society.

     The IAB actively encouraged the formation of the Internet Society,
     and hopes that the Internet community will give the society its
     full support.  Indeed, as soon as signup became possible, all IAB
     members paid their dues and became Internet Society members!  We
     anticipate that the IAB will become an integral part of the
     Internet Society, although the means by which this will be effected
     are still under study.

     Like the IETF, the Internet Society is designed to be primarily a
     grass-roots organization, as free as possible from domination by
     any single organization or subset of the Internet community.  Thus,
     votes will be given to members, not to organizations.  Your
     participation will make it a success.





Westine                                                         [Page 3]

Internet Monthly Report                                        JUNE 1991


     C. NAMING THINGS

     Periodically, someone asks "what are these protocols called?" The
     IAB recommends that the term "TCP/IP Protocol Suite" be used for
     the set of protocols built on top of IP.  "The Internet" is the
     international, interconnected set of datagram networks that once
     supported only the TCP/IP suite, but is beginning to support the
     OSI suite as well.

     "I can't define it, but I know it when I see it".

     D. INTERNET ARCHITECTURE RETREAT

     On June 11-13, 1991, the IAB, IESG, and IRSG held a meeting at the
     San Diego Supercomputer Center, devoted to mapping plans for the
     future of the Internet architecture.  The meeting divided into five
     groups, on: Routing and Addressing, Multi-Protocol Internet,
     Security, Traffic Control and State, and Advanced Applications.

     We think that substantial progress was made, and the results will
     be summarized at the coming IETF meeting in Atlanta.

     Bob Braden (Braden@ISI.EDU)

INTERNET RESEARCH REPORTS
-------------------------

     AUTONOMOUS NETWORKS
     -------------------

        ANTF held a half-day video conference on June 20th to discuss
        simulation of very large scale networks.  No formal minutes...or
        agenda for that matter.

        Deborah Estrin (Estrin@USC.EDU)

     END-TO-END SERVICES
     -------------------

        No progress to report this month.

        Bob Braden (Braden@ISI.EDU)









Westine                                                         [Page 4]

Internet Monthly Report                                        JUNE 1991


INTERNET ENGINEERING REPORTS
----------------------------

             IETF PROGRESS REPORT (May 01, 1991 to May 31, 1991)
                     Compiled by Phill Gross (IETF Chair)

     1) 6 Internet Draft Actions between May 01, 1991 and May 31, 1991

      (Revised draft (o), New Draft (+) )

        WG            I-D Title  <Filename>
      ------  ------ ----------------------------------------------------
      (null)   o An Approach to CO/CL Interworking--Part I: Introduction
                             <draft-ccirn-cocl-doc1-02.txt>
      (dhc)    + Clarifications and Extensions for the Bootstrap Protocol
                             <draft-ietf-dhc-bootp-00.txt>
      (bgp)    + BGP Protocol Analysis
                             <draft-ietf-bgp-analysis-00.txt>
      (bgp)    + Experience with the BGP Protocol
                             <draft-ietf-bgp-experience-00.txt>
      (acct)   + Internet Accounting:  Background
                             <draft-ietf-acct-background-00.txt>
      (bridge) o Definitions of Managed Objects for Bridges
                             <draft-ietf-bridge-definitions-01.txt>

     2)  6 RFC's Produced between May 01, 1991 and May 31, 1991

         (Standard (S), Proposed Standard (PS), Draft Standard (DS),
          Experimental (E), Informational (I) )

       RFC  Status WG        Title
     ------- -- --------     ----------------------------------------
     RFC1224 E (alertman)    Techniques for Managing Asynchronously
                             Generated Alerts
     RFC1229 E (snmp)        Extensions to the Generic-Interface MIB
     RFC1230 PS (snmp)       IEEE 802.4 Token Bus MIB
     RFC1231 PS (snmp)       IEEE 802.5 Token Ring MIB
     RFC1232 PS (snmp)       Definitions of Managed Objects for the
                             DS1 Interface Type
     RFC1233 PS (snmp)       Definitions of Managed Objects for the
                             DS3 Interface Type

     Standards( 4),  Experimental( 2), Informational(  )

     3) Security Area Report (Steve Crocker, TIS)

     The security area within the IETF is responsible for development of
     security oriented protocols, security review of RFCs, development



Westine                                                         [Page 5]

Internet Monthly Report                                        JUNE 1991


     of candidate policies, and review of operational security on the
     Internet.

     Much of the work of the security area is performed in coordination
     with working groups in other areas. The Security Area Advisory
     Group (SAAG) is a group of security experts which provides both
     consulting help to other areas and direct management of working
     groups within the security area.

     The main bulk of work for the SAAG consists of a set of formal work
     items.  These work items correspond to three types of activities.

     o  Working groups within the IETF Security area.  These are marked
        as "Security."

     o  Working groups in allied organizations that function as part of
        the IETF Security area.  These are marked either "PSRG" for the
        Privacy and Security Research Group, or "TSIG" for working
        groups within the Trusted Systems Interoperability Group.

     o  Security relevant developments within working groups in areas
        other than security.  These are marked according to the relevant
        area, viz., Applications, Internet Services, Management, OSI,
        Operations, Routing, Standards, or User Services.

     o  Internal SAAG work items.  These are topics which do not merit
        the creation of a formal working group but which do need some
        level of attention.  These are assigned to a SAAG member and
        followed for one or more SAAG meetings.  These are marked as
        "SAAG."

     The following is the status of each of the currently open work
     items.

     wi001: (Security) SNMP Security -- Keith McCloghrie and James M.
     Galvin

        Develop an enhancement to SNMP to support 3 security services:
        data origin authentication, data integrity and data
        confidentiality.

        The Administrative Model document is being coordinated with the
        Network Management Area.  Three documents --- the Administrative
        Model, the Security Protocols, and the MIB --- are available as
        internet drafts.  Revised documents should be published in July,
        prior to the next IETF, in preparation for submission to the
        IESG for consideration as Proposed Standards.




Westine                                                         [Page 6]

Internet Monthly Report                                        JUNE 1991


     wi002: (Routing) Router Requirements -- Phil Almquist

        To identify and resolve security issues as needed by the working
        group.

        Mike St. Johns has completed a second security review of the
        draft.  He will be meeting with Phil Almquist during the week of
        June 3 to finalize the security considerations section.

     wi003: (Security) Site Security Policy Handbook -- P. Holbrook and
     J. Reynolds

        Create a handbook that will help sites develop their own site-
        specific policies and procedures to deal with computer security
        problems and their prevention.

        The comment period closed May 15th.  We are in final revision
        status right now, and we still expect to have this available as
        an internet draft by 6/1.

     wi004: (Security) Security Policy -- Richard Pethia

        Create a document that can guide the creation of security
        policies for Internet sites.

        The "Guidelines for the Secure Operation of the Internet" is
        available as an internet draft.  It has been forwarded to the
        IAB for publication as an informational RFC.

     wi005: (SAAG) Export of Security Related Implementations -- Vint
     Cerf

        Prepare an informational document that summarizes the export
        control issues.  Appropriate points of contact within the
        various government agencies will also be included.  The document
        will focus on US policy, mentioning others where information is
        readily available.

        Vint Cerf has begun writing a document.  It is on hold pending
        changes to export rules to East Europe.

     wi006: (Security) Common Authentication Technology -- John Linn

        Provide security services to a range of IETF protocol callers in
        a manner which insulates those callers from the specifics of
        underlying cryptographic security mechanisms, enabling modular
        separation between protocol and security implementation
        activities.



Westine                                                         [Page 7]

Internet Monthly Report                                        JUNE 1991


        The working group and its charter will be announced on the IETF
        list by June 15.

     wi007: (SAAG) Password Management -- Jeff Schiller

        BOF at St. Louis IETF.

        No progress to report.

     wi008: (Applications) Telnet Security Services -- Dave Borman

        To enhance the TELNET protocol to include security services.

        A specification for authentication within TELNET exists.  It has
        not been discussed within the last month.

     wi009: (SAAG) IAB Crypto Committee -- Steve Kent and Steve Crocker

        Create a committee to review crypto related algorithm choices in
        the Internet; hash algorithms are the first priority.

        A number of cryptographers have been contacted.  Steve Kent and
        Steve Crocker will contact additional people.

     wi010: (SAAG) IP Security Option -- Steve Kent

        Create an IP security option.

        An internet draft was made available.  Comments have been
        received and Steve Kent is revising the draft.

     wi011: (TSIG) Commercial IP Security Option -- Ron Sharp

        Define an IP security option that can be used to pass security
        information within and between security domains of the
        commercial, U.S.  civilian and non-U.S. communities.

        A charter has been coordinated and filed.  It is waiting for
        approval.  The CIPSO WG is working on a draft specification that
        is being reviewed by Mike St. Johns.

     wi012: (PSRG) Privacy Enhanced Mail -- Steve Kent

        To specify the inclusion of security services in Internet text-
        based mail messages.

        The successors to RFC 1113, 1115, and the "FORMS" document (not
        previously published as an RFC) are available as internet



Westine                                                         [Page 8]

Internet Monthly Report                                        JUNE 1991


        drafts.  The successor to RFC 1114, the key management
        infrastructure, should be available as an internet draft in
        July, prior to the next IETF meeting.  It is being delayed in
        order to accommodate a large number of comments, include the
        addition of an appendix which specifies the requirements RSADSI
        will impose on certification authorities under its jurisdiction.

     wi013: (Applications) Network Printing Protocol -- Glenn Trewitt

        To support the working group in selecting and integrating
        security services.

        Following the March IETF meeting, Glenn Trewitt (Network
        Printing WG chair) drafted a memo entitled "Adding Security
        Mechanisms to PAP", reflecting CAT integration plans.  John Linn
        reviewed this memo, and it was subsequently distributed to the
        NPP WG list.  No further actions are currently planned in
        advance of the July IETF meeting.

     wi014: (TSIG) Trusted Network File System -- Glover

        No progress reported.

     wi015: (OSI) Directory Services -- Steve Kille

        Include the use of strong authentication in the pilot project.

        No progress to report.

     wi016: (SAAG) Network Database Privacy -- Joyce Reynolds and Steve
     Crocker

        Steve Crocker and Joyce Reynolds are drafting a proposed
        statement.

     wi017: (SAAG) CHRONOS -- ??

        The SAAG will request a presentation from the working group at
        the next IETF as to the scope of their work in preparation for
        identifying security issues.

     wi018: (Routing) Router Discovery -- Steve Deering

        The internet draft document has been reviewed.  Although no
        security services are included in this specification of the
        protocol, the Security Considerations section accurately
        describes the security issues.  Provision has been included for
        later inclusion of security services in the protocol.



Westine                                                         [Page 9]

Internet Monthly Report                                        JUNE 1991


     ====================================================================

             IETF PROGRESS REPORT (Jun 01, 1991 to Jul 01, 1991)
                     Compiled by Phill Gross (IETF Chair)

     1) Let me remind everyone that the next IETF meeting will take
     place in Atlanta on July 29 - May 1 1991.  Complete registration
     and logistics information has already been mailed to the IETF
     mailing list.  A preliminary schedule for working groups meetings
     have also been mailed to the IETF list.  For copies of this
     information (or for any other question about the upcoming meeting),
     please mail to ietf-rsvp@nri.reston.va.us.  For general information
     about the IETF, you can send questions to mdavies@nri.reston.va.us.

     There will be some very important activities at the Atlanta
     meeting.  We will have report from the IAB on their workshop
     conducted last month to look at future directions for the Internet
     protocols.  We will also discuss an IESG planning activity for
     future IETF directions.  I have asked each IETF Area Director to
     develop an "Area Plan" to chart activities in their areas.  These
     plans are now being compiled into an "IETF Planning Document",
     which will be issued as an Internet-Draft for wide comment.  It is
     this document we will be discussing in conjunction with the IAB
     workshop report.  It should be an important session.  This is an
     open technical discussion, and we invite all interested persons to
     join us in Atlanta.

     2) I am pleased to report that we have several new people
     participating on the IESG.  Dave Borman (Cray) has joined the IESG
     and is forming a new IETF area called Transport Services.  This
     will essentially be a reincarnation of Craig Partidge's previous
     area, which the exception that we will continue to have User
     Services as a separate area.  Some WGs from both the Applications
     and Internet Areas.  Dave will have more to report on this at the
     Atlanta meeting.  I am also pleased to welcome Philip Almquist
     aboard as a Co-Area Director of the Internet Area.  Noel Chiappa is
     the current Internet Area Director.  THe Internet Area is one of
     the largest in the IETF, and the addition of Philip will provide
     some much needed additional support.  Finally, I am *very* pleased
     to welcome Bernhard Stockman of Nordunet and Susan Estrada
     (CERFnet) as Co-Area Directors of the Operational Requirements
     Area.   I have acted as interim AD for some time now, and I am glad
     we will finally see this important area get the full-time attention
     it deserves.







Westine                                                        [Page 10]

Internet Monthly Report                                        JUNE 1991


     We will discussions of how the these areas will be organized and
     managed during the open IESG session in Atlanta.

     3) 15 Internet Draft Actions between Jun 01, 1991 and Jul 01, 1991

     Posted Revised   WG          I-D Title  <Filename>
     ------ ------- ------- ----------------------------------------------
     Nov 90 Jun 91 (no wg)   FTP-FTAM Gateway Specification
                             <draft-slaski-ftpftam-01.txt>
     Jun 91 New    (pppext)  Point-to-Point Protocol Extensions for
                             DECnet Phase IV
                             <draft-ietf-pppext-decnet-00.txt>
     Jun 91 New    (decnetiv)DECnet Phase IV MIB Extensions
                             <draft-ietf-decnetiv-mibextensions-00.txt,.ps>
     Jun 91 New    (cat)     Generic Security Service Application
                             Program Interface
                             <draft-ietf-cat-genericsec-00.txt, .ps>
     Jun 91 New    (osids)   Schema for Information Resource Description
                             in X.500
                             <draft-ietf-osids-resdescripx500-00.txt>
     Jun 91 New    (disi)    Interim Schema for Network Infrastructure
                             Information in X.500
                             <draft-ietf-disi-netinfrax500-00.txt>
     Jun 91 New    (osids)   Schema for NIC Profile Information in X.500
                             <draft-ietf-osids-nicprofilex500-00.txt>
     Jun 91 New    (osids)   Interim Directory Tree Structure for Network
                             Infrastructure Information
                             <draft-ietf-osids-treestructure-00.txt>
     Jun 91 Jun 91 (iplpdn)  Discovery and Routing over the SMDS Service
                             <draft-tsuchiya-routingsmds-01.txt>
     Jun 91 New    (iplpdn)  Management Information Base for Frame Relay
                             <draft-ietf-iplpdn-frmib-00.txt>
     Jun 91 Jun 91 (iplpdn)  Multiprotocol Interconnect over Frame Relay
                             Networks
                             <draft-ietf-iplpdn-ipoverframerelay-01.txt>
     Jun 91 New    (iplpdn)  Inverse Address Resolution Protocol
                             <draft-ietf-iplpdn-inarp-00.txt>
     Jun 91 New    (822ext)  Mechanisms for Specifying and Describing the
                             Format of Internet Message Bodies
                             <draft-ietf-822ext-messagebodies-00.txt, .ps>
     Jun 91 New    (none)    A User Agent Configuration Mechanism
                             <draft-ietf-borenstein-configmech-00.txt, .ps>
     Jun 91 New    (netdata) Network Database
                             <draft-ietf-netdata-netdata-00.txt, .ps>







Westine                                                        [Page 11]

Internet Monthly Report                                        JUNE 1991


     4)  2 RFC's Produced between Jun 01, 1991 and Jul 01, 1991

         (Standard (S), Proposed Standard (PS), Draft Standard (DS),
          Experimental (E), Informational (I) )

       RFC  Stat  WG       Published    Title
     ------- -- --------   ---------- -------------------------------------
     RFC1238 E  (snmp)     Jun 91  CLNS MIB - for use with Connectionless
                                   Network protocol (ISO 8473) and End
                                   System to Intermediate System (ISO 9542)
     RFC1239    (snmp)     Jun 91  Reassignment of Experimental MIBs to
                                   Standard MIBs

     Standards(  ),  Experimental( 1), Informational( 1)


     5) Active Working Groups  between Jun 01, 1991 and Jul 01, 1991


     o Applications

      Abrev   Formation   Working Group Name
     --------  -------  -----------------------------------
     (822ext)   Apr 91  Internet Message Extentions
     (chronos)  Jan 91  Distributed Scheduling Protocol
     (netdata)  Mar 91  Network Database
     (netfax)   Aug 90  Network Fax
     (npp)      Feb 90  Network Printing Protocol
     (smtpext)  Dec 90  Internet Mail Extensions
     (telnet)   Jun 89  TELNET

     o Internet Services

      Abrev   Formation   Working Group Name
     --------  -------  -----------------------------------
     (appleip)  Feb 90  IP over Appletalk
     (cip)      Oct 88  Connection IP
     (fddi)     Oct 89  IP over FDDI
     (mmb)      Oct 90  Multi-Media Bridging
     (pppext)   Oct 89  Point-to-Point Protocol Extentions
     (rdisc)    Oct 88  Router Discovery
     (rreq)     Oct 89  Router Requirements
     (shr)      Aug 90  Special Host Requirements








Westine                                                        [Page 12]

Internet Monthly Report                                        JUNE 1991


     o Network Management

      Abrev   Formation   Working Group Name
     --------  -------  -----------------------------------
     (acct)     Feb 90  Internet Accounting
     (bridge)   Aug 90  Bridge MIB
     (charmib)  Aug 90  Character MIB
     (decnetiv) May 90  DECnet Phase IV MIB
     (fddimib)  May 89  FDDI MIB
     (msi)      Oct 89  Management Services Interface
     (oim)      Oct 89  OSI Internet Management
     (rlanmib)  Aug 90  Remote LAN Monitoring
     (snmp)     Feb 87  Simple Network Management Protocol
     (x25mib)   Mar 91  X.25 Management Information Base

     o OSI Integration

      Abrev   Formation   Working Group Name
     --------  -------  -----------------------------------
     (noop)     Mar 91  Network OSI Operations
     (oda)      Mar 91  Office Document Architecture
     (osids)    Oct 90  OSI Directory Services
     (osigen)   Jan 89  OSI General
     (osinsap)  Feb 90  Assignment of OSI NSAP Addresses
     (osix400)  Feb 90  OSI X.400
     (x400ops)  Feb 91  X.400 Operations

     o Operational Requirements

      Abrev   Formation   Working Group Name
     --------  -------  -----------------------------------
     (bmwg)     Oct 89  Benchmarking Methodology
     (ddniwg)   Aug 90  DDN Interconnectivity
     (njm)      Feb 90  Network Joint Management
     (opstat)   Dec 90  Operational Statistics
     (tewg)     Feb 90  Topology Engineering
     (ucp)      Feb 90  User Connectivity

     o Routing

      Abrev   Formation   Working Group Name
     --------  -------  -----------------------------------
     (bgp)      Jan 89  Border Gateway Protocol
     (idpr)     Oct 88  Inter-Domain Policy Routing
     (iplpdn)   Dec 90  IP over Large Public Data Networks
     (isis)     Oct 89  ISIS for IP Internets
     (mospf)    Oct 90  Multicast Extentions to OSPF
     (ospf)     Mar 88  Open Shortest Path First IGP



Westine                                                        [Page 13]

Internet Monthly Report                                        JUNE 1991


     o Security

      Abrev   Formation   Working Group Name
     --------  -------  -----------------------------------
     (cat)      Mar 91  Common Authentication Technology
     (cipso)    Mar 91  Commercial Internet Protocol Security Option
     (snmpsec)  Mar 91  SNMP Security
     (spwg)     Feb 90  Internet Security Policy
     (ssphwg)   Mar 90  Site Security Policy Handbook


     o Transport and Services

      Abrev   Formation   Working Group Name
     --------  -------  -----------------------------------
     (dfs)      Feb 90  Distributed File Systems
     (dhc)      Jul 89  Dynamic Host Configuration
     (nntp)     Apr 91  Network News Transport Protocol
     (svrloc)   Dec 90  Service Location Protocol

     o User Services

      Abrev   Formation   Working Group Name
     --------  -------  -----------------------------------
     (disi)     Feb 91  Directory Information Services Infrastructure
     (nisi)     Feb 90  Network Information Services Infrastructure
     (noctool2) Mar 91  NOC-Tool Catalogue Revisions
     (userglos) Dec 90  Internet User Glossary
     (uswg)     Jan 89  User Services


     6) Security Area Monthly Report - Steve Crocker (crocker@tis.com)
                                       and Jim Galvin (galvin@tis.com)

     The security area within the IETF is responsible for development of
     security oriented protocols, security review of RFCs, development
     of candidate policies, and review of operational security on the
     Internet.

     Much of the work of the security area is performed in coordination
     with working groups in other areas. The Security Area Advisory
     Group (SAAG) is a group of security experts which provides both
     consulting help to other areas and direct management of working
     groups within the security area.

     The main bulk of work for the SAAG consists of a set of formal work
     items.  These work items correspond to four types of activities.




Westine                                                        [Page 14]

Internet Monthly Report                                        JUNE 1991


     o Working groups within the IETF Security area.  These are
       marked as "Security."

     o Working groups in allied organizations that function as part
       of the IETF Security area.  These are marked either "PSRG" for
       the Privacy and Security Research Group, or "TSIG" for working
       groups within the Trusted Systems Interoperability Group.

     o Security relevant developments within working groups in areas
       other than security.  These are marked according to the relevant
       area, viz., Applications, Internet Services, Management, OSI,
       Operations, Routing, Standards, or User Services.

     o Internal SAAG work items.  These are topics which do not merit
       the creation of a formal working group but which do need some
       level of attention.  These are assigned to a SAAG member and
       followed for one or more SAAG meetings.  These are marked as
       "SAAG".

     The following is the status of each of the currently open work
     items.

     wi001: (Security) SNMP Security -- Keith McCloghrie and James M.
     Galvin

        Develop an enhancement to SNMP to support 3 security services: data
        origin authentication, data integrity and data confidentiality.

        The following internet drafts are available:

          The Administrative Model
                  draft-ietf-snmpsec-admin-00.ps
                  draft-ietf-snmpsec-admin-00.txt
          The Security Protocols
                  draft-ietf-snmpsec-protocols-00.ps
                  draft-ietf-snmpsec-protocols-00.txt
          The MIB
                  draft-ietf-snmpsec-mib-00.txt

          Revised documents will published in July, prior to the next
          IETF, in preparation for submission to the IESG for
          consideration as Proposed Standards.

     wi002: (Routing) Router Requirements -- Phil Almquist

        To identify and resolve security issues as needed by the working
        group.




Westine                                                        [Page 15]

Internet Monthly Report                                        JUNE 1991


        Mike St. Johns has completed a second security review of the
        draft.  He met with Phil on the 5th of June to finalize the
        security considerations section.  Phil asked for some revisions
        which are currently underway.

     wi003: (Security) Site Security Policy Handbook -- P. Holbrook and
     J. Reynolds

        Create a handbook that will help sites develop their own site-
        specific policies and procedures to deal with computer security
        problems and their prevention.

        The Site Security Policy Handbook was submitted as an Internet
        Draft on June 3. The document was title "Security Policy
        Handbook".  There some discussion of the name of the handbook;
        the title will probably be changed slightly to something like
        "Site Security Handbook" before the document is released as an
        RFC.

        We still have a request in for a plenary slot at the Atlanta
        IETF.  Paul Holbrook has requested a spot early in the week.  It
        is not clear at this point if the plenary slot will talk about
        the SPWG work as or just the SSPHWG.

     wi004: (Security) Security Policy -- Richard Pethia

        Create a document that can guide the creation of security
        policies for Internet sites.

        The "Guidelines for the Secure Operation of the Internet" is
        available as an internet draft.  A number of good comments have
        been received.  A revised document will be prepared for the
        Atlanta IETF.

     wi005: (SAAG) Export of Security Related Implementations -- Vint
     Cerf

        Prepare an informational document that summarizes the export
        control issues.  Appropriate points of contact within the
        various government agencies will also be included.  The document
        will focus on US policy, mentioning others where information is
        readily available.

        Vint Cerf has begun writing a document.  It is on hold pending
        changes to export rules to Eastern Europe.






Westine                                                        [Page 16]

Internet Monthly Report                                        JUNE 1991


     wi006: (Security) Common Authentication Technology -- John Linn

        Provide security services to a range of IETF protocol callers in
        a manner which insulates those callers from the specifics of
        underlying cryptographic security mechanisms, enabling modular
        separation between protocol and security implementation
        activities.

        The charter has been approved and a working group will be
        meeting at Atlanta IETF.  The GSS-API base specification and the
        Kerberos mechanism documentation have been submitted to
        Internet-Drafts.

     wi007: (SAAG) Password Management -- Jeff Schiller

        BOF at St. Louis IETF.

        The exploration of one-time password mechanisms and their
        possible use in Internet protocols is a SAAG work item.

     wi008: (Applications) Telnet Security Services -- Dave Borman

        To enhance the TELNET protocol to include security services.

        Revised drafts of the authentication and encryption options have
        been distributed to the mailing list for comment.

     wi009: (SAAG) IAB Crypto Committee -- Steve Kent and Steve Crocker

        Create a committee to review crypto related algorithm choices in
        the Internet; hash algorithms are the first priority.

        A number of cryptographers have been contacted.  Steve Kent and
        Steve Crocker will contact additional people.

     wi010: (SAAG) IP Security Option -- Steve Kent

        Create an IP security option.

        An internet draft was made available.  Comments have been
        received and Steve Kent is revising the draft.

     wi011: (TSIG) Commercial IP Security Option -- Ron Sharp

        Define an IP security option that can be used to pass security
        information within and between security domains of the
        commercial, U.S.  civilian and non-U.S. communities.




Westine                                                        [Page 17]

Internet Monthly Report                                        JUNE 1991


        The charter has been approved.  The CIPSO WG is working on a
        draft specification that is being reviewed by Mike St. Johns.

     wi012: (PSRG) Privacy Enhanced Mail -- Steve Kent

        To specify the inclusion of security services in Internet text-
        based mail messages.

        The successor to RFC 1113 is available as an internet draft:
        draft-irtf-psrg-pemmsgproc-00.txt

        The successors to RFC 1114 and RFC 1115 will be available as an
        internet draft in early July, prior to the Atlanta IETF meeting.

        The "FORMS" document (not previously published as an RFC) is
        available as an internet draft: draft-rsadsi-pemforms-01.txt

        Steve Kent will chair the PEM WG, which will have its initial
        meeting in Atlanta.

     wi013: (Applications) Network Printing Protocol -- Glenn Trewitt

        To support the working group in selecting and integrating
        security services.

        Following the March IETF meeting, Glenn Trewitt (Network
        Printing WG chair) drafted a memo entitled "Adding Security
        Mechanisms to PAP", reflecting CAT integration plans.  John Linn
        reviewed this memo, and it was subsequently distributed to the
        NPP WG list.  No further actions are currently planned in
        advance of the July IETF meeting.

     wi014: (TSIG) Trusted Network File System -- Glover

        Add security to the NFS protocol.

        A charter has been written and is being coordinated.  A draft
        specification will be circulated in July and discussed at the
        TSIG/IETF meeting in Atlanta.

     wi015: (OSI) Directory Services -- Steve Kille

        Include the use of strong authentication in the pilot project.

        A meeting will be held at Atlanta to plan how to progress this
        work.





Westine                                                        [Page 18]

Internet Monthly Report                                        JUNE 1991


     wi016: (SAAG) Network Database Privacy -- Joyce Reynolds and Steve
     Crocker

        Steve Crocker and Joyce Reynolds are drafting a proposed
        statement.

     wi017: (SAAG) CHRONOS -- Paul Lindner

        The Chair will not be attending the Atlanta IETF, so a
        presentation to the SAAG will not be scheduled.

     wi018: (Routing) Router Discovery -- Steve Deering

        The internet draft document has been reviewed.  Although no
        security services are included in this specification of the
        protocol, the Security Considerations section accurately
        describes the security issues.  Provision has been made for
        later inclusion of security services in the protocol.

     wi019: (Internet Services) Point-to-Point Protocol Authentication
     -- S. Knowles

        To assist the Point-to-Point Protocol (PPP) Extensions Working
        Group in the enhancement of PPP to include an authentication
        service.

        This is a new work item.  The latest draft of the protocol has
        been forwarded to the SAAG for review.  Dave Balenson will be
        providing comments to the working group prior to the Atlanta
        IETF.





















Westine                                                        [Page 19]

Internet Monthly Report                                        JUNE 1991


INTERNET PROJECTS
-----------------

BOLT BERANEK AND NEWMAN INC.
----------------------------

     Inter-Domain Policy Routing

     During the month of June 1991, we spent the majority of the time
     putting together the necessary documents for submitting IDPR as
     Proposed Standard within the IETF.  These documents include an
     architecture description, a protocol specification, a set of
     configuration guidelines, and an SNMP MIB.  BBN is preparing the
     first three documents and SAIC is preparing the MIB.

     Jil Westcott (Westcott@bbn.com)

CERFNET
-------

     CERFnet introduced a new dialup service called DIAL n' CERF Plus.
     This service will provide customers with a Telebit Netblazer at
     their site for dialup to the Internet. This will simplify their
     dialup process and make it easy for multiple users to access the
     network with minimal training.

     Three new dedicated sites will be installed in July. General
     Dynamics (San Diego), Data products (Woodland Hills), and South
     Coast-Air Quality Management District (El Monte).  Each will have a
     56 kbps link to CERFnet.

     The May-June issue of CERFnet News was released.  Copies may be
     retrieved via anonymous ftp to nic.cerf.net in the subdirectory
     cerfnet/cerfnet_news/1991.

     by Karen McKelvey <karen@cerf.net>

CICNET
-------

     The CICNet Board of Directors met in Chicago on June 3.  The
     primary topic of discussion was the FY 91-92 Business Plan.  The
     following new officers were elected: Peter Roll (Northwestern
     University) - Chair; Arthur Lindeman (IndianaUniversity) Vice
     Chair; Lee Shope (University of Iowa) - Secretary.  On June 6-7 the
     CICNet Technical Board met at Indiana University Bloomington
     campus. The meeting was attended by the technical support staff
     from the CICNet member institutions and was highlighted by a



Westine                                                        [Page 20]

Internet Monthly Report                                        JUNE 1991


     presentation on SMDS given by Ameritech.

     CICNet President Michael Staman gave a presentation on using
     Toolbook as an authoring tool at the annual IBM ACIS conference in
     Dallas.  Mike also attended a meeting of the National Board for
     Professional Teaching Standards in St.  Louis, an organization
     dedicated to improving the quality of teaching in the K-12 sector.

     CICNet Assistant Director John Hankins gave a presentation on
     CICNet activities to a national meeting of law school computer
     support staff held at the Illinois Institute of Technology Kent
     College of Law.  John made a similar presentation to the SURF
     Foundation, an organization in the Netherlands responsible for
     information technology coordination and evaluation, during a visit
     by the SURF Foundation staff to Ann Arbor.

     by John L Hankins <hankins@cic.net>

CORNELL
-------

     Gatedaemon Project

     We participated in the OSPF Interoperability tests at FTP Software
     the first week in June.  Gated interoperated successfully with
     several NBMA OSPF implementations.

     Most of the rest of the month was spent merging the changes Rob
     Coltun made to his OSPF at the Interoperability testing and
     cleaning up gated enough for an alpha OSPF release, which was made
     available on June 26th.

     An OSPF MIB query tool is being written in the ISODE SNMP modified
     gawk and tested against Proteon's OSPF MIB implementation.  It has
     only been tested as far as Proteon has implemented.

     Dennis Ferguson from the University of Toronto visited for a week
     to restructure his BGP v2/3 implementation and integrate it into
     the latest gated development sources.

     Scott Brim (swb@nr-tech.cit.cornell.edu)

CSUNET
------

     Twenty-two Stratacom IPX T-1 multiplexors were purchased and
     delivered for use at the twenty California State Universities
     across California.  These Fast-Packet(tm) MUXes are frame-relay



Westine                                                        [Page 21]

Internet Monthly Report                                        JUNE 1991


     capable and interoperate with CSUnet's Cisco Systems routers using
     frame-relay.  CSUnet plans to support IP, DECnet, and AppleTalk
     using the frame-relay technology.

     On June 3, the San Diego and Fullerton campuses were installed
     along with the Los Alamitos Network Operations Center (SWRL).  The
     cisco routers at those sites have been connected to form a frame-
     relay network.CSUnet is using the IPX/16 and IPX/32 models of the
     StrataCom MUXes.  Testing has been on-going throughout the month to
     ensure interoperability between Cisco and Stratacom.

     Mike Marcinkevicz  (mike_marcinkevicz@qmbridge.calstate.edu)

ISI
---

     GIGABIT NETWORKING

     ATOMIC

     Work has begun on implementing the ATOMIC network host interface
     software within the 4.0 SUN UNIX Kernel.

     Greg Finn

     INFRASTRUCTURE

     Joyce Reynolds attended the IAB/IESG/IRSG "retreat" held in San
     Diego, the week of June 10th.  Ann Westine visited NRI in Reston,
     VA, June 19-23 to install the IETF mailing list there.

     Six RFCs were published this month.

        RFC 1234:  Provan, D., "Tunneling IPX Traffic Through IP Networks"
                   Novell, Inc., June 1991.

        RFC 1235:  Ioannidis, J., and G. Maguire, Jr., "The Coherent File
                   Distribution Protocol", Columbia University, June 1991.

        RFC 1236:  Morales, L., and P. Hasse, "IP to X.121 Address Mapping
                   for DDN", USAISEC, June 1991.

        RFC 1238:  Satz, G., "CLNS MIB for use with Connectionless Network
                   Protocol (ISO 8473) and End System to Intermediate
                   System (ISO 9542)", Cisco Systems, Inc., June 1991.

        RFC 1239:  Reynolds, J., "Reassignment of Experimental MIBs to
                   Standard MIBs", ISI, June 1991.



Westine                                                        [Page 22]

Internet Monthly Report                                        JUNE 1991


        RFC 1240:  Shue, C., (Open Software Foundation), W. Haggerty
                   (Wang) K. Dobbins, (Cabletron Systems, Inc.,)
                   "OSI Connectionless Transport Services on top of UDP,
                   Version: 1", June 1991.

     Ann Westine (Westine@ISI.EDU)

     MULTIMEDIA CONFERENCING

     This month the first real teleconference using the ST-II version of
     the Voice Terminal (VT) program, the packet audio component of our
     conferencing system, was held among five sites on DARTnet.  Also
     this month we successfully tested packet video over DARTnet between
     ISI and BBN.

     For networks with limited bandwidth, we have now implemented
     sender-selected floor control for packet video conferences.
     Normally, video streams from all participants are sent to all other
     sites.  On receipt, each individual site decides which video
     stream(s) to display.  In scenarios where n-way traffic would
     exceed bandwidth limits, only one site is selected to send video at
     a time.  A chairperson or moderator is used to decide which site
     distributes its video data and which other ones refrain from
     sending video output.

     Eve Schooler, Steve Casner (schooler@ISI.EDU, casner@ISI.EDU)

JVNCNET, NORTH EAST RESEARCH REGIONAL NETWORK
---------------------------------------------

     General information is available on-line from nisc.jvnc.net.  Use
     "telnet nisc.jvnc.net", username "nicol" and no password.

     Network availability for June, 1991 is 99.71%.

     The traffic for May was 1,814,315,622 (combined in plus out)
     packets.  Four highest contributors were Rutgers University
     (13.68%), Princeton University (12.13%), UPENN (5.23%), and Yale
     (5.11%).

     Installation of the cisco CSC-3 processors for the T1 backbone
     upgrade continues. Installation of the T3 node is in progress.

     Matsushita Information Technology Laboratory (T1, Princeton,NJ),
     National University of Singapore (64kbps), and the University of
     Connecticut (56kbps, Storrs, CT) became operational in June.





Westine                                                        [Page 23]

Internet Monthly Report                                        JUNE 1991


     Network Security, the second in a series of JvNCnet Symposiums,
     took place on Thursday, June 27, 1991 at Princeton University.
     Because today's economy is significantly information-driven and
     more people have integrated computing and computer networks, such
     as Internet, into their daily work, research, and scholarly
     efforts, JvNCnet decided to bring together a prominent panel to
     discuss a variety of security issues with respect to the Internet
     community.  Attention was also paid to requirements of making a
     network connection secure.  In addition, a member of JvNCnet
     described JvNCnet's security protocols.

     The following individuals, who comprised the panel, detailed these
     subjects.

     Stephen Crocker, TIS                Internet security
     Barbara Fraser, CERT                CERT's role in Internet security
     Ted Ts'o, MIT                       Kerberos
     William Cheswick, AT&T Bell Labs    AT&T's secure gateway
     Vikas Aggarwal, JvNCnet             JvNCnet's security approach

     JvNCnet plans to continue sponsoring symposiums that bring to the
     forefront issues, advanced technologies and applications for
     networking technologies as well as training sessions, introductory
     and advanced. It recognizes the need toprovide a diverse
     educational program for its members, users, and anyone interested
     in networking.  For further symposium information, please send
     inquiries to "nisc@jvnc.net."

     The JvNCnet Regional Meeting followed the symposium on Friday, June
     28. Sergio Heker, during his short briefing, happily announced a
     100% increase in membership since JvNCnet became part of Princeton
     University nine months ago.  He also announced the imminent release
     of the JvNCnet Network Operations CenterOn-Line (NOCOL) network
     monitoring software package to the Internet community without
     charge.  For more NOCOL details, send email to "nocol-
     info@jvnc.net."

     Two parallel sessions, which shaped the design of the regional
     meeting, fostered and enhanced discourse among members and with
     JvNCnet.











Westine                                                        [Page 24]

Internet Monthly Report                                        JUNE 1991


     Five different groups concentrated on:

       *Engineering issues and network performance and characterization
       *Members' needs of "Network Information On-Line (NICOL),
           JvNCnet's menu-driven information resource and the
           TCP/Mail Chapter of the JvNCnet Member Handbook/Introduction
           Guide (user manual).
       *X.500 directory services
       *Operational troubleshooting
       *Dialin'Tiger Users' group

     Interaction supplied lively exchange and resulted in necessary
     feedback.

     Three members described their Internet-accessible services.  Mr.
     Todd Vander Does explained the e-MATH service developed at the
     American Mathematical Society with partial NSF funding..  Telnet
     e-math.ams.com.  Login and password are e-math.  Electronic
     inquiries: support@e-math.ams.com.  Ms. Stephanie Supplee and Mr.
     Alan Huber talked about the LEXIS/NEXIS services (legal
     database/business information) of Mead Data Central.  Mr. Anthony
     Abbott detailed the developing Meckler Corp./JvNCnet NICOL project
     for viewing and accessing all Meckler's publications.

     Dr. Leslie Michelson's Site Profile of the University of Medicine
     and Dentistry of New Jersey nicely completed the meeting.

     The next regional meeting will take place in about four months.

     by Rochelle Hammer <hammer@nisc.jvnc.net>

LOS NETTOS
----------

     JPL is our last member site to have their remote console access kit
     installed.  It provides dial access to the console of the cisco,
     the Datatel CSU/DSUs, and to power cycling the equipment.  Caltech
     and JPL were retrofitted with cisco AUX ports which are used to
     provide telnet access to the same functions when the network is not
     partitioned.

     OSPF testing is in progress.

     Walt Prue (Prue@ISI.EDU)







Westine                                                        [Page 25]

Internet Monthly Report                                        JUNE 1991


MITRE Corporation
-----------------

     Shari Galitzer visited Merit's NOC in Ann Arbor with a group from
     DCA.

     Forrest Palmer and Kevin Thompson participated in the Army and Air
     Force Secure Tactical Data Network Demonstration held at Ft Gordon,
     24-28 June 1991.

     Forrest demonstrated the capabilities of a commercial SNMP network
     management package to monitor routers and host systems on LANs and
     radio communication links.  We hope to retain some functional
     capabilities for demonstrating network management in a strategic-
     tactical internetworking environment for our year-end demo.

     MITRE developed methods of collecting data at the transport layer
     in the network and analyzing it to provide integrated information
     on both the user-level performance and the undelying network
     conditions.  These methodologies and tools were successfully used
     during the Integrated Tactical Demonstration Network (ITDN) in
     September 1989 (Allison Mankin's IEEE MILCOM paper describes this
     work).  Kevin executed tests with TCP traffic over tactical links,
     yielding measures of access time, round-trip delay, throughput,
     burst power, and loss rates.  These measurements were folded back
     into the experiments planned for Forward Error Correction
     techniques.

     Allison has taken delivery of her Sparcstation-2's.  Her network
     performance visualization software is being moved to the Sparc and
     X, from the less portable PIXAR platform.

     Walt Lazear presented a briefing on router technology to the DCEC
     RDT&E Technology Seminar on 20 June.

     Walt also participated in testing to bring ESNET into the OSI
     routing fold.  CLNP now is routed through NSFNET, through some
     regionals (like Michnet and Alternet), and through the FIX to
     ESNET.

     Walt Lazear (lazear@gateway.mitre.org)










Westine                                                        [Page 26]

Internet Monthly Report                                        JUNE 1991


NEARNET
-------

     NEARnet has grown to 80 members.

     ESNET (DECNET) is being routed over NEARnet to Brown University,
     enabling them to use one connection for both TCP/IP and DECNET
     connectivity.

     Network operations continues to be stable.  The transition to the
     T3 network is progressing.

     by John Rugo <jrugo@bbn.com>

NNSC, UCAR/BOLT BERANEK and NEWMAN, INC.
----------------------------------------

     Karen Roubicek participated in the Coalition for Network
     Information (CNI) Directory Working Group in Palo Alto, California,
     and attended an Open Meeting on the Interim-NREN Network
     Information Services in Washington, DC.

     The NNSC has updated the network provider referral list.  The new
     list is available through the NSFNET portion of the Info-Server.
     To receive this list send a message to: info-server@nnsc.nsf.net,
     in the body of the message type:

     Request: nsfnet
     Topic:   referral-list

     This request will automatically send you the referral-list file.

     The NNSC distributed additions to Chapters 3 of the Internet
     Resource Guide.

     Corinne Carroll <ccarroll@nnsc.nsf.net>

NSF BACKBONE (Merit)
-------------------

     Total traffic on the NSFNET T1 and T3 infrastructures measured
     7,726,207,578 inbound packets.  This figure represents all inbound
     traffic from the 16 NSFNET end nodes.

     NSFNET T1 infrastructure inbound traffic totaled 7,156,101,602
     packets during June, 1991.  This total includes packet traffic
     entering the T1 network from the T3 network.  As of June 28th, 2982
     networks are announced to the T1 NSFNET; of this total, 989 are



Westine                                                        [Page 27]

Internet Monthly Report                                        JUNE 1991


     foreign nets.

     NSFNET T3 infrastructure inbound traffic totaled 1,612,595,367
     packets during June, 1991.  This total includes packet traffic
     entering the T3 network from the T1 network.  Networks announced to
     the T3 NSFNET numbered 583 nets at the end of June.

     Testing was completed for a second point of interconnection between
     the T1 and T3 infrastructures at San Diego during June.  This
     interconnect will route production traffic as of July 2. T1 and T3
     infrastructures are also interconnected at Ann Arbor.  Phase 1 of
     the T3 NSFNET deployment was accomplished on June 24th as the node
     at Argonne began accepting production traffic.  Phase 2 of the T3
     expansion includes the addition of core nodes and DS3s to support
     the planned E-NSSs at the remaining T1 nodes.  Core nodes have been
     added at Hartford, New York and Greensboro on the east coast; core
     nodes in St. Louis, Denver and Seattle will be added in mid-July.
     The installation of T3 nodes at the remaining T1 nodes is
     tentavitely planned for mid-July through mid-August.

     Guests at the Merit/NSFNET Network Operations Center included the
     Netherlands Scientific Technical Board:  W.J. Keller, director of
     the Netherlands Bureau of Statistics; W. Loeve, director of the
     informatics division of the National Aerospace Laboratory; C.C.M.
     Hendriks, director of informatics of the Rotterdam Polytechnic
     School; J.C.M. Pietersen, project manager of the SURF Foundation;
     and A.D. van Ingen Schenau, secretary of the Scientific Technical
     Board.  Their agenda included an overview of the NSFNET Project, a
     demonstration of the University of Michigan Institutional File
     System, a tour of the language multimedia lab Project Flame, and
     the Harlan Hatcher Library.  Manuel Ludevid, Executive Director of
     the International Social Science Council Human Dimensions of Global
     Environmental Change Programme, Barcelona, Spain, was a visitor to
     the University of Michigan's Institute for Social Research.  An
     overview and discussion of the NSFNET project was part of his tour
     of the University.

     Jessica Yu and Elise Gerich of the Merit Internet Engineering group
     were its representatives at the June meeting of the FEPG at Moffett
     Field.  Gerich also participated in the IAB retreat held in San
     Diego, CA.  Sue Hares of Merit Internet Engineering attended the
     InterOp '91 OSI Demonstration planning meeting.  NSFNET is
     encouraging regional and national networks currently passing CLNP
     traffic across the NSFNET infrastructures to join in an OSI
     demonstration for InterOp '91.  Further information is available
     from Hares (skh@merit.edu).  Hares also participated in the Boston
     ANSI X3 S3.3 committee meeting, continuing work on IDRP and the
     implementation of OSI in NSFNET.



Westine                                                        [Page 28]

Internet Monthly Report                                        JUNE 1991


     iNET '91, the international networking conference, was held in
     Copenhagen, Denmark, June 18-20.  The NSFNET project was
     represented by both Eric Aupperle, President, Merit Network, Inc.,
     and Susan Calcari, Merit/NSFNET Information Services.  Aupperle
     spoke on the "NSFNET - Current Performance and Short-term
     Directions," while Calcari gave a presentation on "Education over
     the International Internet."  Aupperle subsequently traveled to the
     Technical University of Berlin (Germany), where he addressed an
     audience on "Merit's Networking Experiences--Global, Statewide and
     on Campus."

     Participating on the Social Sciences panel, Calcari gave an NSFNET
     update at the IBM Academic Computing Conference (ACIS) in Dallas,
     TX.  Glee Harrah Cady, Manager of Merit/NSFNET Information
     Services, and Laura Kelleher, Merit/NSFNET Information Services,
     were its representatives at "Developing a Framework for Network
     Directories and Related Services," the Coalition for Networked
     Information (CNI) meeting at Stanford University.  Cady facilitated
     a discussion of users as resources and Kelleher gave a presentation
     on the MichNet approach to collecting network information, which
     focuses on the user not the resource.  Cady also gave an NSFNET
     overview and update at the Research Libraries Group (RLG) offices.
     Kelleher represented Merit/NSFNET at Networking '91, the
     CA*net/Netnorth/CDNnet Annual Conference, in Kingston, Ontario, and
     presented an NSFNET update.

     Jo Ann Ward (jward@merit.edu)

NDRE and NTA-RD
---------------

     NDRE and NTA-RD have nothing to report this month.

     Anton B. Leere <leere@ndre.no>

PITTSBURGH SUPERCOMPUTER CENTER
-------------------------------

     Stephen Cunningham has taken over the position of Network
     Coordinator and will be the first line of contact for network
     related matters involving the Pittsburgh Supercomputing Center.
     This position was previously held by Gregory Dobrich who has moved
     on to work with SURAnet.

     We have completed testing of our new T3 ENSS and moved it into
     production use.  The final network design consists of a two tiered
     network hierarchy, consisting of a primary production path and a
     secondary backup network path.  The primary path, the new high



Westine                                                        [Page 29]

Internet Monthly Report                                        JUNE 1991


     speed network, contains the T3 (45 Mbps) connection to the NSFnet,
     an internal FDDI (100 Mpbs) network between the Mellon Institute
     and the Westinghouse Machine room and finally, a Low Speed Channel
     (100 Mbps) to the Cray. The secondary path, PSC's previous
     production path, consists of the T1 (1.5 Mbps) to the NSFnet, two
     internal T1 (1.5 Mbps) connections between the Mellon Institute and
     the WEC Machine room and an ethernet (10 Mbps) connection to the
     Cray.

     PSC's new network should benefit all PSC Users.  First, the two
     tier hierarchy provides PSC with a very robust network with no
     single point of failure. Second, users will see a significant drop
     in delay when traversing the T3 instead of the T1 backbone. For
     example, the average delay across the T3 between PSC and MERIT is
     19 msec, while across the T1 it is 60 msec. Users whose sites do
     not yet have access to the T3 backbone will also see a drop in
     delay due to improved internal connectivity.  For example, the
     average delay over the old production network was 20 msec while it
     is just 4 msec over the new high speed network.

     Stephen Cunningham (CUNNINGHAM@B.PSC.EDU)

PREPNET
-------

     During June, two new hubs became operational.  We installed
     cisco-based hubs in Harrisburg and in State College.

     We also had four organizations join PREPnet.  Muhlenberg College
     will be connected to the Allentown hub at 56Kbps, Lebanon Valley
     College will be connected to the Harrisburg hub at 9.6Kbps, ICDD
     (International Centre for Defraction Data) will be connected to the
     terminal server in Philadelphia via a 9.6Kbps leased line, and
     Juniata College will be connected to the State College hub at
     56Kbps.

     PREPnet and the PA Dept. of Education sponsored a K-12 seminar on
     June 12th.  The purpose of this seminar was to gather together
     people working on K-12 projects so they could talk with each other.
     We had thirty people attend the seminar.  The attendees were very
     enthusiastic.  We are making plans for future meetings.

     PREPnet NIC (prepnet+@andrew.cmu.edu)








Westine                                                        [Page 30]

Internet Monthly Report                                        JUNE 1991


SAIC
-----

     Recent Activities:

     The first step in the gated port has been completed.  The IDPR
     prototype now runs as a single process.  The first cut at making
     IDPR a gated task is underway.

     During the past month, Ken Carlberg from SAIC and Mark Sleeper from
     Sparta prepared a draft MIB for policy terms for IDPR.  They have
     done some testing of this MIB using the University of Wisc. CMOT
     code.  An initial version of the full IDPR MIB which includes the
     policy term MIB as an appendix has been completed and made
     available to the IDPR WG in preparation for the July IETF meeting.

     Planned activies:

     Completion of initial gated integration is our highest priority.
     Additional code cleaning and optimization will take some time
     because of the inefficiencies introduced by the old multi-process
     implementation.  A design of a new common database for all IDPR
     modules will be essential as the current implementation has a lot
     of per-module redundancy.

     We are investigating the possibility of an IDPR demo at the
     upcoming IETF.

     Woody Woodburn (woody@sparta.com)

SRI NIC
-------

     Because the supply of Class B numbers is dwindling due to the
     growing number of requests for these numbers, the NIC Internet
     registry has imposed more stringent requirements for obtaining
     these numbers.  Organizations that want to obtain large groups of
     Class B numbers (five or more) will be required to furnish the
     registry with a detailed rationale for their requests, and in some
     cases will be asked to accept alternative allocations of Class C
     numbers.

     The cumulative total of all IP numbers now assigned is 30,146.  See
     the table below for a breakdown by month.  There are now a total of
     1,290 Autonomous System numbers (ASNs) assigned.  There are
     currently a total of 2,298 domains registered.  This includes the
     root domain, 63 top-level domains, 2,172 second-level domains, and
     62 third-level MIL subdomains.



Westine                                                        [Page 31]

Internet Monthly Report                                        JUNE 1991


                             Cumulative IP Network Statistics

     Month/Year                       Class

                             A       B       C           Total

     Jun. 1991               43      5,654   24,449      30,146

     May. 1991               43      5,026   24,797      29,866

     Apr. 1991               43      4,977   25,897      30,917

     Mar. 1991               41      4,520   24,572      29,133

     Feb. 1991               39      4,347   22,552      26,938

     Jan. 1991               39      4,246   21,731      26,016

     Dec. 1990               36      4,305   21,811      26,152

     Nov. 1990               35      4,198   21,149      25,382

     Mary Stahl (stahl@nisc.sri.com)

THENET
------

     The University of Texas System Office of Telecommunication Services
     is hosting a one day conference, on August 20, 1991 at the Balcones
     Research Center in Austin, Texas.  Speakers from the Computer
     Emergency Response Team (CERT), the Coalition for Networked
     Information (CNI), the National Agricultural Library, The Texas
     Education Agency, Advanced Network & Services, Inc. (ANS), Texas
     A&M University, VideoTelecom Corp., EDS, Thinking Machines
     Corporation, and The State of Texas House of Representatives will
     make presentations about telecommunication and networking issues in
     higher education.

     Registration, agenda and travel information is available via
     anonymous ftp to host ftp.utexas.edu, directory "pub/conference",
     file "information.full".

     Tracy LaQuey Parker <T.LaQuey@utexas.edu>








Westine                                                        [Page 32]

Internet Monthly Report                                        JUNE 1991


UCL
----

     Jon Crowcroft and Steve Wilbur attended the INET'91 Conference in
     Copenhagen, and gave papers on the UK-US Traffic Patterns
     (available for anonymous ftp from docs/inet.ps on cs.ucl.ac.uk) and
     workstation videoconferencing.

     There was a video conference between London University Librarians
     and MIT librarians (our first international "naive" users).

     The T20 Gateway replacement for the ULCC butterfly and a video
     conference to discuss progress on UK-US Interconnection are
     happening as I write.

     A meeting of the "Shoestring" group was held at UCL to discuss
     progress on the IP pilot in the UK. Backbone routers (ciscos) are
     delivered and now Phase II (introduction of more sites) is
     starting.  The routing architecture is being hammered out.
     Sites/Campus nets are starting to appear properly in the DNS (e.g.
     Cambridge University).  Discussions are underway for 34Mbps leased
     lines for at least around London very soon.

     John Crowcroft (j.crowcroft@CS.UCL.AC.UK)

UNIVERSITY OF DELAWARE
----------------------


     1.   Packet-loss rates from campus to the College Park NSFnet NSS
          have reached the six-percent level. We are working with SURA
          people to resolve this problem.

     2.   Work continues on constructing SBus interfaces for
          SPARCstations and high-speed crossbar switches for our
          Highball project. Work also continues on algorithm simulation
          and system robustness.  Partly due to recent events, we have
          become keenly interested in system fault-tolerant principles.

     3.   A substantial redesign is in progress on network
          synchronization for DARTnet. We hope to improve reliable
          timekeeping accuracy to the submillisecond regime.

     4.   We have obtained audio, video and interface gear to support
          real-time conferencing. We plan to use this for DARTnet
          experiments and general teleconferencing.

          Dave Mills (Mills@UDEL.EDU)



Westine                                                        [Page 33]

Internet Monthly Report                                        JUNE 1991


WISCNET
-------

     A WiscNet descriptive flyer and membership memo of understanding
     were finalized and distributed to prospective new members.

     Michael Dorl (dorl@macc.wisc.edu)












































Westine                                                        [Page 34]

Internet Monthly Report                                        JUNE 1991


DIRECTORY SERVICES
------------------

This section of the Internet Monthly is devoted to efforts working to
develop directory services that are for, or effect, the Internet.  We
would like to encourage any organization with news about directory
service activities to use this forum for publishing brief monthly news
items.  The current reporters list includes:

        o IETF OSIDS Working Group
        o IETF DISI Working Group [X]
        o Field Operational X.500 Project
           - ISI
           - Merit
           - PSI
           - SRI
        o National Institute of Standards and Technology [X]
        o North American Directory Forum [X]
        o OSI Implementor's Workshop
        o PARADISE Project
        o PSI DARPA/NNT X.500 Project
        o PSI WHITE PAGES PILOT
        o Registration Authority Committee (ANSI USA RAC) [X]
        o U.S. Department of State, Study Group D,
            MHS Management Domain subcommittee (SG-D MHS-MD) [X]

                [X] indicates no report this month

Steve Hotz (hotz@isi.edu)
DS Report Coordinator

IETF OSIDS WORKING GROUP
------------------------

     The OSI-DS documents are now numbered as a document series.

     Two documents were released:

     OSI-DS 16:
       "Schema for NIC Profile information in X.500"
        Chris Weider & Mark Knopper
        June 1991

        Abstract:  The authors wish to put put up a readily accessible,
        distributed Directory of Network Information Centers, or NICs.
        This paper discusses the schema used to hold the NIC Profiles,
        as well as the DIT structure necessary for this information.




Westine                                                        [Page 35]

Internet Monthly Report                                        JUNE 1991


     OSI-DS 17:
       "Schema for Information Resource Description in X.500"
        Chris Weider
        May 1991

        Abstract:  The authors are interested in allowing distributed
        access and updating for Information Resource Description
        information to users of the Internet.  This paper discusses the
        schema used to hold the Information Resource Description
        information.  The new attributes are taken from the US-MARC
        fields, and subfields, with the mapping described in the text.

     Preparation is underway for the next WG meeting at the IETF in
     Atlanta.

     Steve Hardcastle-Kille (s.kille@cs.ucl.ac.uk)

FOX -- FIELD OPERATIONAL X.500 PROJECT
--------------------------------------

     The FOX project is a DARPA and NSF funded effort to provide a basis
     for operational X.500 deployment in the NREN/Internet.  This work
     is being carried out at Merit, NSYERNet/PSI, SRI and ISI.  ISI is
     the main contractor and responsible for project oversight.

     ISI
     ---

        ISI organized the July 9 FOX phone conference, which included
        participants from all of the FOX contractors.  FOX participants
        will meet sometime during the Atlanta IETF.

        Steve Hotz (hotz@ISI.EDU)

     MERIT
     -----

        Some of the Merit activities related to X.500 and Directories
        which took place during June:

         o Work on schema definitions for NIC Profiles and Internet
           Online Resources, including internet drafts outlining
           that work.

         o Met with John Clement of Educom about directory of K-12
           people and resources.  Started schema definitions for
           those as well.




Westine                                                        [Page 36]

Internet Monthly Report                                        JUNE 1991


         o Began work to implement e-mail based query and updating
           system for K-12 for Educom.  This will be a prototype for
           a later production system.

         o Received new workstation to use as DSA for FOX project
           activities.

        Mark Knopper (mak@merit.edu)

     PSI
     ---

        A new X.500-based application, "x5ftp", was released for alpha
        testing by FOX project partners.  "x5ftp" is an X.500-based
        application that allows one to search a portion of the Directory
        for references to documents.  The application then allows the
        selective retrieval of documents by anonymous ftp.

        "X5ftp" provides a command-shell interface to a complete X.500
        DUA that is specially tailored for document retrieval.

        A paper which discusses the role of X.500 in information
        retrieval was written.  This paper, published by PSI as
        Technical Report 91-06-25, is available for anonymous ftp from
        uu.psi.com [136.161.128.3] in wp/nir.ms (nroff/troff version, ms
        macros) wp/ps/nir.ps (Postscript version) and wp/nir.txt (text
        version).

        Wengyik Yeong (yeongw@psi.com)

     SRI
     ---

        We observed that the Northern Swift Fox DSA was core dumping
        given an inconsistent collection of circumstances.  The problems
        were traced to a lack of swap space on the DSA's host.  The
        system was reconfigured to increase swap space by approximately
        25%.  No similar problems have been observed.

        SRI began an investigation of options for providing a user
        interface to support access to the WHOIS information now stored
        in X.500.  The decision as to a course of action is forthcoming
        in a subsequent report.

        A low-level investigation of problems with NIST's Custos 0.1.1
        continued.  Although original suspicions centered around ISODE
        version incompatibilities (Custos 0.1.1 was developed with ISODE
        6.0 while SRI is running version 6.8), restoring ISODE 6.0 at



Westine                                                        [Page 37]

Internet Monthly Report                                        JUNE 1991


        SRI and subsequent recompilation of Custos 0.1.1 yielded no
        progress.  NIST and SRI will continue their investigation,
        focusing on possible configuration differences.

        Work on the DISI X.500 implementation catalog continued.  Ruth
        Lang and Russ Wright (LBL) have written a majority of the
        supporting sections that will accompany the implementation
        descriptions.  A draft list of cross-reference keywords has been
        selected and applied to the descriptions.  A formatted version
        of the document (Internet-Draft) will be made available before
        the July IETF meeting.

        Ruth Lang (rlang@nisc.sri.com)

OIW
---

     The OSI Implementor's Workshop (OIW) Directory Service SIG met
     during June 10-13, 1991.  There were about 20 attendees
     representing 15 vendors and users.  It was a very productive
     meeting and the SIG generated the following outputs:

         o Access Control and Replication:

           The SIG generated draft working agreements on Access Control
           and Replication based on PDAMs and CD.  For Access Control,
           the SIG created a table for error situations and error
           actions.  For Replication, the SIG generated the DSA
           Replication Conformance and Recommended Practice sections.
           These agreements are expected to be stable by the end of
           1991 when the standards reach DAM and DIS at the end of
           October, 1991.

         o Distributed Operations:

           The SIG generated draft working agreements on Distributed
           Operations based on the EWOS profile.  These agreements do
           not include any extension work being developed in the
           standard body.

         o APDU size limit:

           The SIG agreed to change Result APDU size limit from 32K to
           256K in order to align with the EWOS profile.  This limit
           will only affect DSAs involved in distributed operations.
           This modification is expected to affect the Stable Agreements.





Westine                                                        [Page 38]

Internet Monthly Report                                        JUNE 1991


         o Pragmatic Constraints:

           The SIG agreed to change ub-postal-string for the
           Postal Address attribute syntax from 30 to 60 characters in
           order to accommodate many existing postal addresses.  This
           change is expected to be made against the Stable Agreements
           at the next meeting.  The SIG sent liaison letters to inform
           this change and to investigate if this change causes any
           problems to current Directory user groups.

         o Guideline on AE Title Use:

           Informative text was generated in order to guide applications
           making use of the AE Title field to access application Entity
           Objects in the Directory.

     Youbong Weon-Yoon (youbong@arch2.att.com)

PARADISE
--------

     The public access "simple-to-use" PARADISE DUA is available for
     sampling on one of the project machines; use "telnet 128.86.8.56"
     and enter "dua" at the login prompt.  Comments welcomed to the list
     Paradise INTerfaceS <pints@cs.ucl.ac.uk>.

     The PARADISE packaged DSA and DUA should be available later this
     month and will be based on ISODE 7.0 which is due for release in
     mid-July.

     Interoperability tests are proceeding with the French pilot; the
     presentation level difficulty has been resolved and the twelve
     French organizations represented below c=FR are now visible.  The
     QUIPU/PIZARRO discussion has some months to run yet.  Inquiries
     about PIZARRO may be directed to: Paul-Andre Pays
     <pays@fr.emse.mars>.  Specific questions concerning the
     interoperability testing may be directed to: Paradise
     inteROPERability <proper@paradise.ulcc.ac.uk>.

     David Goodman (d.goodman@cs.ucl.ac.uk)
     PARADISE Project Manager

PSI DARPA/NNT X.500 Project
---------------------------

     Beta testing was performed on ISODE beta-release 6.9.  Experimental
     versions of existing DSA and DUA software were tested.  Testing was
     also performed to ensure that version 6.9 is backwards-compatible



Westine                                                        [Page 39]

Internet Monthly Report                                        JUNE 1991


     with version 6.8.

     Effort was expended in the past month to increase the reliability
     of operational X.500 service.  To this end:

       o Watchdog scripts that ensure that processes related to the
         provision of X.500 service continue to run were written and
         installed.  These scripts will be further enhanced in the
         future to detect more error conditions that cause denial
         of service.

      o Some shuffling of DSA functionality among machines was
        performed to better distribute the demands placed on various
        machines by the X.500 service.

      o An enhanced version of the ISODE software was installed on
        all machines to fix version skew problems and further enhance
        reliability.

      o A systematic schedule of monitoring the reliability of all
        machines that contribute to X.500 service was begun.

     Testing was performed, using some of the data in the "o=Performance
     Systems International" subtree, in preparation for alignment with
     the COSINE/Internet Naming Architecture.

     Final testing of a beta version of a White Pages front-end for
     PC/MSDOS that is layered over FTP Inc.'s PC/TCP kernel is almost
     completed.  Anonymous FTP release of the binary is slated for the
     1st week of July.

     Wengyik Yeong (yeongw@psi.com)

PSI WHITE PAGES PILOT PROJECT
-----------------------------

     As of June 26, 1991, there are 76 organizations participating in
     the White Pages in the United States of America.

     New organizations added this past month are:

             Cornell University

     The practice of pruning non-responsive DSAs from the c=US arc has
     been temporarily suspended due to a change in people supporting the
     White Pages Manager function.  Pruning will begin again next month.

     Wengyik Yeong (yeongw@psi.com)



Westine                                                        [Page 40]

Internet Monthly Report                                        JUNE 1991


CALENDAR OF EVENTS
------------------

     Readers are requested to send in dates of events that are
     appropriate for this calendar section.

     1991 CALENDAR

     Jul 8-12        IEEE802 Plenary, Hawaii
     Jul 15-17       Gigabit Conference, Washington,D.C.
                     Al Vezza, (AV@lcs.mit.edu)
     Jul 28-Aug 2    IETF, Atlanta, GA
                     Megan Davies (mdavies@nri.reston.va.us)
     Sep 3-6         SIGCOMM91, Zurich, Switzerland
                     Bernhard Plattner
     Sep 9-13        OIW, Location unknown
     Sep 17-19       ANSI X3S3.3, Boulder, CO
     Sep 25-27       RIPE, Location Unknown
     Oct 7-11        INTEROP91, San Jose, CA
                     Dan Lynch (dlynch@interop.com)
     Oct 21-23       NORDUNET '91, Bergen, Norway
     Nov 11-12       RARE WG1, Brussels, Belgium
     Nov 11-16       IEEE802 Plenary, Ft. Lauderdale, FL
     Nov 18-22       IETF, Santa Fe, NM
                     Megan Davies (mdavies@nri.reston.va.us)
     Dec 2-5         GLOBECOM'91, Phoenix, AA
     Dec 3-5         ANSI X3S3.3, San Jose, CA
     Dec 9-13        OIW, Location Unknown

     1992 CALENDAR

     Jan 13-21       ANSI X3T5
     Jan 20-22       RIPE, Amsterdam
     Jan 28-30       ANSI X3S3.3, Tucson, AZ
     Feb 19-20       RARE WG1, Location unknown
     Feb 20-21       RARE Manager Mtg, Location unknown
     Mar 2-6         ANSI X3T5
     Mar 3-5         ACM CSC, Kansas City, MO
     Mar 9-13        IEEE802 Plenary, Irvine, CA
     Mar 9-13        OIW
     Mar 16-19       Info Netwrk&DataComm, Espoo, FI
     Mar 18-20       Computers, Freedom & Privacy II,
                     Grand Hyatt Hotel, Washington, DC
     Mar 25-27       National Net 92, Washington DC
                     Mike Roberts (roberts@educom.edu)
     Apr 6-16        CCITT SG VII    Geneva, Switzerland
     Apr 21-23       ANSI X3S3.3, Mountaon View, Ca.
     <Spring>        IETF, San Diego, CA



Westine                                                        [Page 41]

Internet Monthly Report                                        JUNE 1991


                     Megan Davies (mdavies@nri.reston.va.us)
     May 4-6         ANSI X3T5
     May 4-8         DECUS '92, Atlanta, GA
     May 12-14       Joint Network Conference 3, Innsbruck, Austria
                     (this is the RARE Networkshop - renamed)
     May 18-25       INTEROP92, Washington, D.C.
                     Dan Lynch (dlynch@interop.com)
     May 20-22       IFIP Int'l Conference, Vancouver, Canada
     May 19-29       ISO/IEC JTC 1/SC 21, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada
     Jun 8-12        OIW
     Jun 10-11       RARE WG1, tentative-Location unknown
     Jun 11-12       RARE COSINE MHS MGR, tentative-Location unknown
     Jun 14-17       ICC-SUPERCOMM'92, Chicago, IL
     Jun 15-19       INET92, Kobe, Japan
                     Jun Murai (jun@wide.ad.jp), KEIO University
     Jun 16-18       ANSI X3S3.3, Minneapolos, MN
     Jul 6-10        IEEE802 Plenary, Bloomington, MN
     Jul 13-17       ANSI X3T5
     Jul 13-24       ISO/IEC JTC1/SC6, San Diego, CA
     Aug 17-20       SIGCOMM, Baltimore, MD
                     Deepinder Sidhu, UMBC
     Sep 14-18       ANSI X3T5
     Sep 21-25       OIW
     Sep 22-24       ANSI X3S3.3, Boston, MA
     Oct 26-30       INTEROP92, San Francisco
                     Dan Lynch (dlynch@interop.com)
     Nov 9-13        ANSI X3T5
     Dec             ANSI X3S3.3, Boulder, CO
     Dec 7-11        DECUS '92, Las Vegas, NV
     Dec 14-18       OIW

     1993 CALENDAR

     Mar 8-12        INTEROP93, Wasington, D.C.
                     Dan Lynch (dlynch@interop.com)
     May 23-26       ICC'92, Geneva, Switzerland
     Jun 7-11        OIW
     Aug             INET93,  San Francisco Bay Area
     Aug             SIGCOMM, San Francisco
     Sep 13-17       OIW
     Sep 20-31       ISO/IEC JTC1/SC6, Seoul, Korea.
     Oct 25-29       INTEROP93, San Francisco
                     Dan Lynch (dlynch@interop.com)
     Nov 9-13        IEEE802 Plenary, LaJolla, CA
     Dec 6-10        OIW

     1994 CALENDAR




Westine                                                        [Page 42]

Internet Monthly Report                                        JUNE 1991


     Apr 18-22       INTEROP94, Washington, D.C.
                     Dan Lynch (dlynch@interop.com)
     Sep 12-16       INTEROP94, San Francisco
                     Dan Lynch (dlynch@interop.com)

     1995 EVENTS

     Sep 18-22       INTEROP95, San Francisco, CA
                     Dan Lynch (dlynch@interop.com)










































Westine                                                        [Page 43]
