





~






November 1991


INTERNET MONTHLY REPORTS
------------------------

The purpose of these reports is to communicate to the Internet Research
Group the accomplishments, milestones reached, or problems discovered by
the participating organizations.

     This report is for Internet information purposes only, and is not
     to be quoted in other publications without permission from the
     submitter.

Each organization is expected to submit a 1/2 page report on the first
business day of the month describing the previous month's activities.

These reports should be submitted via network mail to:

     Ann Westine Cooper (Cooper@ISI.EDU)
     NSF Regional reports - Corinne Carroll (ccarroll@NNSC.NSF.NET)
     Directory Services reports - Tom Tignor (TPT2@ISI.EDU)

requests to be added or deleted from the Internet Monthly report list
should be sent to "cooper@isi.edu".

Back issues of the Internet Monthly Report can be copied via FTP:

     FTP>  nis.nsf.net
     Login: anonymous guest
     ftp> cd imr
     ls
     get IMRYY-MM.TXT

For example, JUNE 1991 is in the file IMR91-06.TXT.









Cooper                                                          [Page 1]

Internet Monthly Report                                    November 1991


TABLE OF CONTENTS

  INTERNET ACTIVITIES BOARD

     IAB MESSAGE  . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  4
     INTERNET RESEARCH REPORTS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  4
        AUTONOMOUS NETWORKS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  4
        END-TO-END SERVICES  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  4
     INTERNET ENGINEERING REPORTS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page  5

  Internet Projects

     BARRNET . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 29
     BOLT BERANEK AND NEWMAN, INC.,  . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 29
     CONCERT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 31
     CSUNET (CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY NETWORK). . . . . . . page 32
     FARNET (FEDERATION OF AMERICAN RESEARCH NETWORKS) . . . . page 32
     GAO (GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTING OFFICE). . . . . . . . . . . . page 33
     ISI . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 34
     JVNCNET . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 36
     LOS NETTOS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 38
     MERIT/MICHNET . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 38
     NEARNET (NEW ENGLAND ACADEMIC AND RESEARCH NETWORK) . . . page 39
     NNSC, UCAR/BOLT BERANEK and NEWMAN, INC., . . . . . . . . page 40
     NSFNET/ANSNET BACKBONE ENGINEERING. . . . . . . . . . . . page 40
     NSFNET/INFORMATION SERVICES . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 43
     PITTSBURGH SUPERCOMPUTER CENTER . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 44
     PREPnet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 45
     SAIC. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 46
     SAN DIEGO SUPERCOMPUTER CENTER  . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 47
     SRI . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 48
     SURANET . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 49
     UCL . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 49
     UDEL. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 50
     WISCNET . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 50

  DIRECTORY SERVICES ACTIVITIES

     DIRECTORY SERVICES MESSAGE  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 52
     IETF OSIDS & DISI WORKING GROUPS. . . . . . . . . . . . . page 52
     FOX - FIELD OPERATIONAL X.500 PROJECT . . . . . . . . . . page 53
        ISI. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 53
        PSI. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 53
        SRI. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 54
     PARADISE PROJECT. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 55
     PSI DARPA/NNT X.500 PROJECT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 57





Cooper                                                          [Page 2]

Internet Monthly Report                                    November 1991


     PSI WHITE PAGES PILOT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 57
     REGISTRATION AUTHORITY COMMITTEE (ANSI USA RAC) . . . . . page 58
     SG-D MHS-MD . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 63

  CALENDAR OF EVENTS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 64














































Cooper                                                          [Page 3]

Internet Monthly Report                                    November 1991



IAB MESSAGE

     CHANGE OF IAB CHAIR

     The chairman of the IAB is selected by and from the IAB membership,
     to serve a term of two years.  Vint Cerf's term ended in June 1991,
     and at that time the IAB selected Lyman Chapin as the next IAB
     chair.  Unfortunately, Lyman was unable to begin serving
     immediately due to existing time committments, and Cerf consented
     to continue as acting chair.

     At the IAB meeting in Sante Fe, Vint Cerf announced that he will
     retire from the IAB in January 1992, to devote full time to
     launching the Internet Society.  At that time, Lyman Chapin will
     take up the duties of IAB chair.

     STANDARDS ACTIONS:

     The IAB has accepted the IESG recommendation to make "U.S.
     Department of Defense Security Options for the Internet Protocol"
     (IPSO, Internet Draft <draft-ietf-ahwgipso-ipso-01>) a Proposed
     Standard. It will be RFC-1108.

     Bob Braden (Braden@ISI.EDU)

INTERNET RESEARCH REPORTS
-------------------------

     AUTONOMOUS NETWORKS
     -------------------

        No Internet progress to report this month.

        Deborah Estrin (Estrin@USC.EDU)

     END-TO-END SERVICES
     -------------------

        No Internet progress to report this month.

        Bob Braden (Braden@ISI.EDU)









Cooper                                                          [Page 4]

Internet Monthly Report                                    November 1991


INTERNET ENGINEERING REPORTS
----------------------------

                       November 1991 IETF Report
                   Reported by Phill Gross, IETF Chair

     1. Santa Fe IETF meeting (November 18-22, 1991)

     The IETF met in Santa Fe on November 18-22 1991.  The meeting was
     hosted by Los Alamos National Laboratory.  Many thanks are due to
     Dale Land, John Morrison, C. Phil Wood, Peter Ford, and many others
     at LANL for the amazing amount of work that went into hosting this
     meeting.  The facilities were outstanding and the location was
     beautiful.  Numerous folks mentioned to me that this was a very
     productive IETF meeting.  I think we can thank LANL (and perhaps,
     the clear mountain air? :-) for helping to make this such a
     productive meeting.

     The meeting was attended by approximately 350 people.  It was quite
     productive with 46 working groups and 11 BOFs meeting in over 80
     separate sessions.  Three IETF Area "advisory groups met -- the
     Security Area Advisory Group (SAAG), the Operational Requirements
     Area Directorate (ORAD), and the User Services Area Council (USAC).

     We are very pleased that FARNET chose to meet in Santa Fe during
     the same week, so that there was quite a bit of interaction between
     IETF and FARNET interests during the week.  In particular, the ORAD
     met jointly with FARNET, and had a very productive session pursuing
     FARNET's topic for the week -- "Hardening the Mid-level Networks".

     The IAB also took this opportunity to meet in Santa Fe.  It was
     quite helpful to have IAB members in attendance at IETF, and this
     helped increase the communication and positive interaction between
     the IAB, the IESG, and the IETF.   I feel that the IETF benefits
     greatly from the direct participation of IAB members in the various
     WG activities.  I hope we will continue to see this close
     interworking between the IAB and IETF.

     There were 14 technical presentations during the week. As it turns
     out, there was an increased interest in ATM at this meeting, with 3
     separate presentations on the basic technical details of ATM and an
     interesting approach to using ATM in local area networks.  There
     was also a BOF on "IP over ATM", which will become a working group
     at the next meeting.

     There was an important focus on routing at this IETF.  Martha
     Steenstrup (BBN) presented a status report on Inter-Domain Policy
     Routing (IDPR), and how IDPR might interwork with BGP (or other



Cooper                                                          [Page 5]

Internet Monthly Report                                    November 1991


     inter-domain routing protocols).  Deborah Estrin (USC) presented a
     proposal, co-authored with Yakov Rekhter (IBM) for a "unified"
     inter-domain routing protocol.  Noel Chiappa ran a BOF on his
     proposal for a new routing and addressing architecture.  Noel's BOF
     was based on his presentation at the July IETF meeting in Atlanta,
     and will likely evolve into a working group effort.  The BGP WG had
     several very important sessions.  During one BGP WG session,
     Jessica Yu (MERIT) introduced a new WG effort (under the
     Operational Requirements Area) to concentrate on the operational
     deployment of BGP.

     In another BGP WG session, Phill Gross (ANS) led a discussion on
     introducing address masks into BGP, including the notion of
     "supernet masks" to condense information in routing tables.  The
     discussion soon expanded to encompass the related problem of IP
     address depletion.  As a result, the assembled group, along with
     the IAB and IESG, organized the "Routing and Addressing (ROAD)
     Working Group.

     The goal of the WG will be to propose methods to deal with the
     related problems of routing table scaling and IP address depletion.
     The ROAD WG will hold its first meeting at the March IETF meeting
     in San Diego (March 16-20, 1991).   The IETF effort dovetailed very
     nicely with the results of the IAB/IESG Architecture Retreat in
     June (reported at the July IETF meeting), which recommended (in
     part) that an IETF WG be formed to pursue this crucial matter.  In
     an attempt to help focus the activities of this important group
     several members of the IAB retreat have joined some participants
     from the BGP WG session to set the agenda for the ROAD WG in March,
     and explore some of the various alternatives.

     Area Reports from activities at the Santa Fe IETF are included
     below.


     2. IESG and IAB Reporting of Internet Standardization

     The procedures for reporting and track Internet standardization
     activities have grown in an ad hoc fashion over the last several
     years as the IETF standardization activiities have expanded.  In
     Santa Fe, the IAB and IESG wrote down the following sequence of
     procedures for reporting Internet standarization actions to the
     IETF and the wider Internet community.  Comments on this procedure.








Cooper                                                          [Page 6]

Internet Monthly Report                                    November 1991


     Procedure for Reporting/Tracking Internet Standards Actions

      1. Announce WG Progress                      I-D announcements
                                                   To: IETF

      2. Announce WG Completion (ie, "Last Call")* From: IESG
                                                   To: IETF, IAB

      3. Announce IESG Recommendation              From: IESG
                                                   To: IAB
                                                   cc: IETF

      4. Announce IAB Outcome                      From: IAB
                                                   To: IETF, IESG

      5. RFC Published                             RFC List

     Essentially the same procedure is followed for standards actions at
     any of the three levels of Internet stanardization -- Proposed,
     Draft, Internet Standard.  Note that the second step ("last call")
     is new.  It was added to assure that interested parties will have
     additional notification and time to make comments on upcoming
     standards actions.


     3.  Upcoming IETF Meetings

     The next IETF meeting will be hosted by San Diego Supercomputer
     Center on March 16-20, 1992.  Paul Love and Hans-Werner Braun will
     act as local hosts.  Reservation material will be sent to the IETF
     mailing list in January 1992.  Note that this is the same week of
     the America's Cup, so San Diego will be VERY crowded. Please try to
     make your reservations as early as possible.

     We are now working very hard to schedule IETF meetings further into
     future.  Our goal is to schedule meetings at least one year in
     advance.

     Please note that we are now planning to hold our first IETF meeting
     outside North America in Fall 1993 in Europe.  This is a natural
     step, with the Internet Society beginning operation in 1992, and
     with the IETF finding itself increasing involved in international
     issues.  More information on this important development will be
     made available as the plans become firm.







Cooper                                                          [Page 7]

Internet Monthly Report                                    November 1991


     4. IETF Report in the Internet Society Quarterly Newsletter

     The Internet Society will be publishing a newsletter on a quarterly
     basis.  Activities in the IETF will be reported regularly in this
     newsletter.  The IETF submission for the first ISOC newsletter is
     included below.  Since this is the first ISOC newsletter, I have
     included a great deal of introductory material, with which many
     readers of this list may already be familiar.  However, since we
     continue to see many new participants in the IETF, it may be useful
     to repeat that introdcutory material in the IMR, too.  See section
     8. below for the IETF submission to the ISOC newsletter.


     5. IETF Area Reports from the Santa Fe meeting


     USER SERVICES AREA REPORT
     -------------------------

     Reported by: Joyce K. Reynolds

     Eight Working Groups met at the IETF in Santa Fe:

          Directory Information Services (pilot) Infrastructure
          Working Group (DISI), Chaired by Christopher Weider.

             DISI is a working group that provides a forum
             to define user requirements in X.500.  It is
             an offshoot of the OSI Directory Services
             group and is a combined effort of the User Services
             Area and the OSI Integration Area of the IETF.

             Paper 1, "Executive Summary" (Weider, Reynolds, Heker).
             Defines issues DISI should be working on.
             This current draft has been revised twice since
             the Atlanta IETF.  It is ready for Internet-Draft
             submission, and on to FYI RFC publication.

             Paper 2, "Survey" (Lang, Wright).
             This document will undergo one last modification
             before publication.  Additional DUAs were added that
             were inadvertently left out, as well as additional
             submissions.  This document will be reissued as an
             Internet-Draft, then submitted to the RFC Editor for
             FYI RFC publication.






Cooper                                                          [Page 8]

Internet Monthly Report                                    November 1991


          Internet Anonymous FTP Archives (IAFA)
          Chaired by Peter Deutsch and Alan Emtage

             This is a new working group which met for the
             first time in Santa Fe.

             The Internet Anonymous FTP Archives working group is
             chartered to define a set of recommended standard
             procedures for the access and administration of
             anonymous FTP archive sites on the Internet.

             IAFA attendees agreed on the charter.  Discussion
             then focused on two documents this group intends
             to produce:

                     "Anonymous FTP Site Administrator's Guide"
                     "Anonymous FTP User's Guide"

             The contents of these two documents were discussed,
             as well as a discussion on new technology issues.
             Newer technology issues were tabled for further
             discussion at a later date.

             John Curran (BBN), Ellen Hoffman (Merit), and
             April Marine (SRI) volunteered to work on the
             "Anonymous FTP User's Guide" document.

          Internet School Networking (ISN)
          Chaired by: John Clement, Art St. George, and Connie Stout

          This is a new working group which met for the
          first time in Santa Fe.

             The Internet School Networking working group is
             chartered to facilitate the connection of
             the United States' K-12 (Kindergarten-12th Grade)
             schools, public and private, to the Internet, and
             school networking in general.

             ISN's session gathered educators and Internet
             folks together.  This meeting primarily focused
             on going over and refining the charter, the
             goals and projected milestones.








Cooper                                                          [Page 9]

Internet Monthly Report                                    November 1991


          Network Information Services Infrastructure Working
          Group (NISI), Chaired by April Marine and Patricia Smith

             Dana Sitzler has resigned as co-chair of NISI.
             April Marine has accepted the co-chair position.
             Patricia Smith will remain as co-chair.

             The final review of this group's Internet-Draft,
             "Building a Network Information Services
             Infrastructure" was discussed.   Inclusion of a
             security "verification" section in the document
             has been placed and agreed upon.

             Continued discussion on where this group should go
             from here - there was justification of additional action
             items/tasks that fall in NISI's realm.

          NOC-Tool Catalogue Revisions Working Group (Noctool2)
          Chaired by Robert Enger and Darren Kinley

             Gary Malkin has resigned as co-chair of NOCTOOL2
             to work with Tracy LaQuey Parker on the User-Glossary
             document.  Darren Kinley has accepted the co-chair
             position.  Robert Enger will remain as co-chair.

             The "Son of NOCTools" working group are updating
             and revising their catalog to assist network managers
             in the selection and acquisition of diagnostic
             and analytic tools for TCP/IP Internets.

             This group has "one last call" out for submissions,
             and is continuing to accept additional "vendor
             gathering" for one more month.  The document will be
             submitted as an Internet-Draft, then on to the RFC
             Editor for FYI RFC publication.

          User Documentation (UserDoc)
          Chaired by Ellen Hoffman and Lenore Jackson

             The User-Doc working group will be preparing a revised
             bibliography of on-line and hard copy documents,
             reference materials, and training tools addressing
             general networking information and how to use the
             Internet.  The target audience includes those
             individuals who provide services to end users and
             end users themselves.

             (See the USWG minutes below for further information on



Cooper                                                         [Page 10]

Internet Monthly Report                                    November 1991


             this group's current progress.)

          User Glossary (UserGloss)
          Chaired by Gary Malkin and Tracy LaQuey Parker

             Karen Roubicek has resigned as co-chair of UserGloss.
             Gary Malkin has accepted the co-chair position.
             Tracy LaQuey Parker will remain as co-chair.

             The User-Gloss working group met and decided on
             the document format and updated goals and milestones.
             A draft document will be ready for review at the
             next IETF in San Diego.  A review and final draft
             will be presented at the IETF in Boston.  The
             final document will be published shortly after
             the Boston IETF.

          User Services Working Group (USWG)
          Chaired by Joyce K. Reynolds

             The User Services working group provides a regular
             forum for people interested in all user services to
             identify and initiate projects designed to improve
             the quality of information available to end-users of
             the Internet.

          Agenda items included:

             Report on the RARE WG3 meetings held in Zurich,
             Switzerland.  Reported by Joyce K. Reynolds.

             SIGUCCS draft - Presented by Martyne Hallgren.
             Written by ACM Siguccs Networking Taskforce.
             Document title - "Connecting to the Internet -
             what connecting institutions should anticipate",

             Revision of User-Doc WG - Presented by Lenore
             Jackson & Ellen Hoffman, User-Doc Co-chairs.
             Discussion focused on the revision of its charter,
             objectives, future goals, and establishing procedures
             on updating the bibliography.

             QUAIL - presented by Gary Malkin.
             Gary Malkin and April Marine held a brief discussion
             with the USWG on the updating of the "Questions and
             Answers for New Internet Users".





Cooper                                                         [Page 11]

Internet Monthly Report                                    November 1991


     OPERATIONS AREA REPORT
     ----------------------

     Susan Estrada and Bernhard Stockman

        During this IETF five working groups meet. There were three
        BOF's on operations related subjects. The Operational
        Requirements Area Directorate (ORAD) meet together with FARnet
        which met in Santa Fe at the beginning of this IETF week.

        1. User Connectivity Working Group

           The User Connectivity Working Group met twice this week, in
           the true tradition of operators being over committed to these
           things, and actually came up with some really good outputs.
           They decided how to do a NOC phone book, standardized network
           status reports and standardized total ticket handoff, which
           is the mechanized procedure. There should be some
           implementations happening in the next six months, and that
           will actually make our lives a lot simpler.  If you're
           interested in getting on the mailing list, send a request to
           ucp-request@nic.near.net

         2. Network Joint Management Working Group.

           Network Joint Management met once this week.  Following the
           FARNET theme of "Hardening the Mid-level Networks", the group
           discussed 50 simple things you can do to help the internet be
           hard. The operators were encouraged to subscribe to
           nwg@merrit.edu, which is going to be the open discussion list
           for what's going on in the networking community.

         3. Network Status Reports.

           Around 30 people attended this session. Network status
           reports were given from

               - ESnet (Tony Haines)
               - NSI (Milo Medin)
               - MILNET (Katherin Huber)
               - EBONE-92 (Bernhard Stockman)

           Phill Gross has been organizing the network status report
           sessions for some time.  However, at this meeting, Phill
           turned the organization of this group over to Gene Hastings.
           The choice of Gene as the new chair was an indication of the
           similar subjects covered by the Network Status Report
           sessions and the Network Joint Management WG, also chaired by



Cooper                                                         [Page 12]

Internet Monthly Report                                    November 1991


           Gene.  It is hoped that both NJM and NSR will benefit from
           this new close coordination.

         4. Router Requirements Checklist BOF.

           The idea behind a router requirements checklist is to take
           that router requirements document an turn into something that
           may be used as guidance for purcahsing router equipment.
           Theg group decided that this was a useful thing to do.  A
           strawman checklist will be constructed real soon. A mailing
           list is already set up and if you are interested to subscribe
           send a request to rcl@cerf.net.  It's not clear that this
           work will be done within an IETF working group.  The ideas is
           rather to bash this out, and just get it issued as an
           informational RFC, without having to form a working group.

         5. Quality of Service Measurements BOF

           This BOF only concerned quality of service measurements for
           wide area networks. Basically the idea here is that as
           regionals, or as networks, there is no need to find
           measurement criteria available.  The base line is to find the
           right questions to ask and that is a good way to start. A
           working group will be formed and a mailing list set up for
           discussing this subject.

         6. Benchmarking and Methodology Working Group.

           The Benchmarking folks met this week.  They word-smithed the
           benchmaring document.  They're going to have one more video
           meeting in January, and a draft document will be available by
           the next IETF.

         7. The Operations Requirments Area Directorate (ORAD) session.

           The ORAD session was chaired by Susan Estrada, Phill Gross
           and Bernhard Stockman. Around 50 people attended. The meeting
           was a joint session between ORAD and FARnet people.

           Presentation of the Intercontinental Engineering and Planning
           Group (IEPG). Geoff Huston, co-chair of IEPG, gave an
           overview of the current IEPG work. The IEPG meet in Santa Fe
           the week before IETF.  Major topics of interest for the IEPG
           group were

              - Interactions bewteen network regions.
              - Protocol infrastrucuture.
              - Multi-lingual applications.



Cooper                                                         [Page 13]

Internet Monthly Report                                    November 1991


              - Network minimal service levels.
              - Global traffic flows.
              - Information services.

           There is the need of define operation tools to the vendors.
           For example there is a need to make the SNMP displays used
           today a little more meaningful and a lot more helpful to use
           in the long run. A working group will be initated, probably
           at the next IETF, that will define recommendations for the
           operational folks to give to vendors, to help them design
           better interfaces.

         8. Operational Statistics WG.

           OPSTAT meet during two session with around 30 participants
           chaired by Bernhard Stockman.

           The main topic was a simplified version of earlier documents
           descriping the gathering, storage and presentation of
           statistical data. The major time was spend on discussing the
           storage format and polling periods. Prior to this there have
           been a discussion on 5 - 15 minutes polling periods. It was
           concluded that one single polling period could not be
           recommened. The polling period has to be dependant on the
           type of polling being performed so the meeting defined a set
           of polling periods for different situations.  The intention
           is to have the simplified version ready for ID during
           Decemeber 1991.

        9. BGP Deployment and Applications BOF.

           A BOF on BGP usage with around 30 participants, chaired by
           Jessica Yu. The reason for this was to investigate the need
           and interest of forming an IEtF WG around this concept.

               Topics that were treated:

               - The need for an IETF WG to facilitate for interoper-
                 ability test and to act as a forum for knowledge
                 transfer.
               - A reveiw of today BGP impelementation and usage.
               - Presenation by CISCO on current implemenations and
                 future plans
               - Discussion around the NSFnet T3 and T1 BGP
                 implementations.
               - A review of midlevel networks currently using BGP.





Cooper                                                         [Page 14]

Internet Monthly Report                                    November 1991


     APPLICATIONS AREA
     -----------------

     Director: Russ Hobby/UC Davis

     Overview

          The Applications Area of the IETF is moving to bring
          multimedia capabilities to the Internet.  One Working
          Group in particular, The Internet Message Format
          Extensions WG, has made great strides in this direction.
          This WG is finishing the specifications to allow email to
          have multiple parts to the message where each part may be
          text, image, audio, video or other types of information to
          be presented to the end user.  The Network News Transport
          Protocol WG is working closely with the new message format
          to bring these capabilities to the network news world.
          The Teleconferencing BOF explored the idea of desktop
          video conferencing.  The general goal of the area is to
          define the protocols to create an interoperable multimedia
          distributed computing environment for the Internet.

     Working Groups Summary

     Internet Message Format Extensions WG

          The WG is finishing the document on multi-part mail
          messages that will replace RFC 822.  The WG plans to
          submit the document as a Proposed Standard in early
          January.  This will complete the work of the WG.

     Internet Mail Extensions

          The WG has a new chair, John Klensin.  The WG had to
          decide if progress could be made towards a method to allow
          eight bit characters in SMTP.  The group decided to define
          a means for negotiating the transport of eight bit
          characters.  It was thought that the method could also be
          useful for negotiation of other items, such as allowed
          message size.

     Network News Transport Protocol

          This WG did not meet in Santa Fe, but has been making good
          progress on the mail list and has a document about ready
          to be issued as an Internet Draft.





Cooper                                                         [Page 15]

Internet Monthly Report                                    November 1991


     Automated Internet Mailing List Services

          Unfortunately the chair of this WG, David Lippke, had to
          resign due to a reassignment of work duties.  The WG will
          be on hold until a new chair is found.

     Network FAX

          The WG finished work on the image format to be used for
          transporting FAX on the Internet.  The Document will be
          available as an Internet Draft soon.


     Network Database

          The WG continued work on the definition of SQL
          transactions over TCP/IP networks.  The group is small and
          there needs to be involvement from other SQL implementers.

     TELNET

          The TELNET WG made further progress on authentication and
          encryption for TELNET sessions.  It was decided that
          authentication and encryption need to be closely tied
          together in operation.

     Teleconferencing BOF

          At this BOF several individuals presented work being done
          on teleconferencing over the Internet.  After the
          presentations there was discussion on how the problem can
          be broken in work that can be done by various Working
          Groups.  One WG was created to define methods for realtime
          transport of audio and video.

     INTERNET AREA
     -------------

     Noel Chiappa
     Philip Almquist

     Four Internet Area working groups met in Santa Fe.  The Internet
     Area also hosted two birds-of-a-feather sessions.

     The Apple-IP Working Group revised their AURP (IP over Appletalk)
     and MacIP (Appletalk over IP) drafts.  The group expects that both
     of these documents are now finished, but will allow a final comment
     period before submitting them for standardization.  SNMP over



Cooper                                                         [Page 16]

Internet Monthly Report                                    November 1991


     Appletalk is ready to be submitted for standardization.  Work
     continues on Appletalk over PPP.  Appletalk MIB enhancements are on
     hold pending further implementation experience.

     The Multi-Media Bridge Working Group has been working on a
     replacement for RFC1042 (IP over 802).  This work is intended to
     better handle the peculiarities of 802.5 yet remain backwards-
     compatible with RFC1042.  The group also continues to consider the
     problems of bridging dissimilar networks.

     The Router Requirements Working Group revised and approved a
     Forwarding Table MIB document and made some minor revisions to the
     Router Requirements draft.  The group's chair gave a plenary
     presentation on the Router Requirements draft in anticipation of
     its immanent completion.  The group held a joint session with the
     IDPR Working Group to ensure that the output of the two groups will
     be consistent.  For similar reasons, some members of the group
     attended the BGP Working Group's discussions of route leaking
     between OSPF and BGP.

     The PPP Working Group decided, based on implementation experience,
     that some changes to the protocol were needed.  In particular, they
     revised the definitions of the Link Quality Monitoring and IP
     Address Negotiation facilities.  The group also did some work on
     their PPP Authentication draft.

     A BOF chaired by Bob Hinden met to determine whether sufficient
     interest in ATM networks existed to justify the formation of an IP
     over ATM working group.  The answer seemed to be a resounding yes.

     Another BOF, chaired by Andy Nicholson, met to discuss experiments
     at Cray Research in "Dynamic Creation of Network Links" (basically,
     using switched T3 services to add Internet paths on demand).  This
     BOF has met before, and will probably become a working group.


     NETWORK MANAGEMENT AREA
     -----------------------

     J. Davin

     At the Santa Fe meeting of the IETF, six working groups of the
     Network Management Area held one or more sessions throughout the
     week.  Also, two Birds of a Feather sessions were held.

     The SNMP Network Management Directorate reviewed six MIB
     specifications that had been recently reported out of working
     groups.  Three of these were products of the Character MIB Working



Cooper                                                         [Page 17]

Internet Monthly Report                                    November 1991


     Group: the MIB for character stream devices, the MIB for parallel-
     printer-like hardware devices, the MIB for RS232-like devices. Also
     reviewed were the IP Forwarding MIB produced by the Router
     Requirements WG, the Frame Relay MIB produced by the IPLPDN Working
     Group, and the SMDS Interface Protocol MIB produced by the SNMP
     Working Group.  The IESG announced its intention to consider these
     MIBs as candidates for Proposed Standard status after final text is
     available in the Internet Drafts repository..

     In addition, the directorate discussed the problem of representing
     elaborate protocol stacks using the abstractions provided by the
     "interfaces" group of MIB 2. The directorate discussion was
     premised on the notion that is implicit in MIB 2 that an
     "interface" object is only used to represent protocol entities
     below the internetwork (e.g., IP) layer. The problem addressed has
     arisen in any number of Working Group discussions: although the
     interfaces group in MIB 2 is a convenient abstraction for managers,
     it doesn't support specific transmission media or elaborate
     protocol stacks that may involve both downward and upward
     multiplexing.

     The directorate discussion came to three conclusions:

     -- Every entry in a media-specific MIB table is paired one-to-one
     with a single entry in the interfaces table of MIB 2. The media-
     specific entry can be reached from the generic interfaces table
     entry by using information in the ifType object together with
     information in the ifIndex object.

     -- Media-specific MIB table entries can (and often do) include
     "pointer" information that represents user-service relations among
     entities in a more or less elaborate protocol stack below the
     internetwork layer. This pointer information variously takes the
     form of OBJECT IDENTIFIER values (as in the Character MIB) or
     combinations of OBJECT IDENTIFIER and INTEGER values.  -- If every
     protocol entity below the internetwork layer is represented by an
     entry in the MIB 2 interfaces table, then all possible user-service
     relations among such entities may be concisely represented as a set
     of ordered pairs of ifIndex values. A simple MIB to represent such
     a set of ordered pairs was deemed desirable.

     A document presenting these conclusions in greater detail will be
     prepared as a basis for broader discussion of this problem.

     X.25 MIB Working Group

     The X.25 MIB Working Group met to consider three documents: one
     that instruments X.25 link-layer functionality, one that



Cooper                                                         [Page 18]

Internet Monthly Report                                    November 1991


     instruments X.25 layer 3 functionality, and one that instruments
     convergence functions necessary to run IP over X.25.

     At this meeting, the WG decided that the scope of instrumentation
     in the link-layer MIB will be confined to the LAPB protocol. The
     working group also concluded that the objects in these MIBs should
     be reviewed for actual usefulness in managing networks and that
     some pruning or alteration in conformance posture may be desirable.
     The working group noted that the IPLPDN Working Group was
     contemplating a revision to RFC 877 and decided to monitor that
     activity to determine if it may warrant revision to the IP/X.25
     convergence MIB. The group also discussed at some length the
     problems of representing X.25 protocol stacks in MIBs and suggested
     that the SNMP directorate might pay some attention to this problem.

     Remote LAN Monitoring Working Group

     This working group met informally to discuss implementation
     experience with the recently published RMON MIB. At the suggestion
     of members who had attended the Birds of a Feather session on SNMP
     Device Discovery earlier in the week, the working group spent some
     time discussing ways in which RMON technology could be applied to
     the device discovery problem. The meeting also recommended that a
     new working group be formed to address extensions of the RMON MIB
     for Token Ring media.

     IEEE 802.3 Hub MIB Working Group

     This working group met to discuss the current draft of a SNMP MIB
     for 802.3 Repeater devices. The chair reported on IEEE reaction to
     this first draft of the SNMP MIB. A presentation was made on ideas
     for a "chassis MIB" that is useful in instrumenting communications
     products that encompass multiple devices. As a result of this
     presentation, the working group concluded that its repeater MIB
     need not accommodate multiple repeater devices as this need was
     better addressed by the notion of a chassis MIB. The working group
     recommended that effort be applied to development of the chassis
     MIB ideas.

     Internet Accounting Working Group

     This working group met in two sessions during the Santa Fe IETF
     meeting.  The first session reviewed the IA Background document
     (RFC 1272).  Some time was spent bringing newcomers up to date with
     the WG's purpose and efforts.  New attendees brought fresh
     perspectives and offered many comments, criticisms, and suggestions
     that will be incorporated into either a new version of the RFC or
     into follow-on documents.



Cooper                                                         [Page 19]

Internet Monthly Report                                    November 1991


     The second session was spent in discussion of the latest draft of
     the IA architecture.  Although this document has existed for
     several months now and has undergone 3 or 4 extensive revisions, it
     still needs work, both in form and content. The stated scope of the
     document was tightened. The IA model and its difference from the
     OSI accounting model was more clearly defined. A decision was made
     to combine the metering services document (formerly to be separate)
     with the architecture document. A decision was made to announce the
     WG's intention to produce a draft MIB document before its work is
     concluded.  Discussion of the architecture document will continue
     with a view to advancing it to the status of Internet Draft by the
     next IETF conference.

     SNMP Working Group

     This working group met briefly in Santa Fe to conclude its
     business.  The only item of outstanding business was the resolution
     of issues surrounding the Ethernet MIB. The WG chair reviewed the
     course of action that had been previously discussed on the mailing
     list. With the formation of the Ethernet MIB working group to
     resolve outstanding issues, the SNMP WG adjourned and disbanded.
     The scheduled time that remained after adjournment of the SNMP WG
     was devoted to the first meeting of the new Ethernet MIB group.

     Ethernet MIB Working Group

     The Ethernet MIB working group met for the first time in Santa Fe
     to begin its resolution of outstanding issues in the Ethernet MIB.
     The working group charter was presented and interpreted by the
     chair. The working group decided to omit from the current version
     of the MIB the language that dissociates conformance to the
     standard from actual implementation of the relevant objects.  The
     working group felt that resolution of the issues required a more
     straightforward strategy that ties implementation requirements to
     particular operating environments.  The working group also decided
     that distinctions between 802.3 and Ethernet environments could be
     a useful principle in articulating conformance requirements. The
     group also agreed that distinctions between hardware and software
     implementations of MAC layer functions would also be an important
     consideration.

     SNMP MIB Compiler BOF

     A Birds of a Feather session on SNMP MIB compiler technology was
     conducted by Dave Perkins of Synoptics. Dave presented his recent
     work on MIB compiler technology and explained how it could be
     valuable both in syntax checking of MIB documents and as a tool to
     support development of SNMP agents.



Cooper                                                         [Page 20]

Internet Monthly Report                                    November 1991


     SNMP Device Discovery BOF

     A Birds of a Feather session on SNMP Device Discovery was conducted
     by Fred Baker of ACC. Much time was spent in this session
     attempting unsuccessfully to formulate an adequate definition of
     the problem. The session articulated some ideas on how remote
     monitoring technology could be applied to the device discovery
     problem, and these were subsequently presented to the RMON MIB
     working group for its consideration.


     6. Eighteen (18) Internet Draft Actions this month

     There were 18 Internet-Draft actions leading up to the Santa Fe
     IETF meeting in November.

           (Revised draft (o), New Draft (+) )

      WG             I-D Title  <Filename>
    ------       --------------------------------------------------------
    (ppp)      o The Point-to-Point Protocol (PPP):  A Proposed Standard
                 for the Transmission of Multi-Protocol Datagrams Over
                 Point-to-Point Links
                        <draft-ietf-ppp-multidatagrams-03.txt>
    (ucp)      o FYI on an Internet Trouble Ticket Tracking System for
                 addressing Internet User Connectivity Problems
                        <draft-ietf-ucp-connectivity-01.txt>
    (none)     o Mapping between X.400(1988) / ISO 10021 and RFC 822
                        <draft-ietf-kille-x_400mapping-05.txt>
    (iplpdn)   o Management Information Base for Frame Relay DTEs
                        <draft-ietf-iplpdn-frmib-02.txt>
    (pppext)   o The PPP Internet Protocol Control Protocol (IPCP)
                        <draft-ietf-pppext-ipcp-02.txt>
    (dhc)      o Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol
                        <draft-ietf-dhc-protocol-01.txt, .ps>
    (smtpext)  o SMTP Extensions for Transport of Enhanced Text-Based
                 Messages
                        <draft-ietf-smtpext-8bittransport-02.txt>
    (mospf)    o Multicast Extensions to OSPF
                        <draft-ietf-mospf-multicast-01.ps>
    (disi)     o A Catalog of Available X.500 Implementations
                        <draft-ietf-disi-catalog-01.txt>
    (pppext)   o The PPP Authentication Protocols
                        <draft-ietf-pppext-authentication-01.txt>
    (rreq)     o IP Forwarding Table MIB
                        <draft-ietf-rreq-forwarding-04.txt>
    (cat)      + Distributed Authentication Security Service
                        <draft-ietf-cat-dass-00.txt, .ps>



Cooper                                                         [Page 21]

Internet Monthly Report                                    November 1991


    (isis)     + Integrated IS-IS Management Information Base
                        <draft-ietf-isis-mib-00.txt>
    (e2e)      + TCP Extensions for High Delay*Bandwidth Paths
                        <-No Internet Draft>
    (none)     + Experiences Supporting By-Request Circuit-Switched
                 T3 Networks
                        <draft-nicholson-conditioning-00.txt>
    (none)     + Multiprotocol Interconnect on X.25 and ISDN in the
                 Packet Mode
                        <draft-ietf-iplpdn-x25_isdn-00.txt>
    (tcplw)    + TCP Extensions for High Performance
                        <draft-ietf-tcplw-tcpext-00.txt>
    (822ext)   + Representation of Non-ASCII Text in Internet Message
                 Headers
                        <draft-ietf-822ext-msghead-00.txt>
   7. Eleven (11) RFC's this month

       (Standard (S), Proposed Standard (PS), Draft Standard (DS),
        Experimental (E), Informational (I) )

     RFC  Status WG        Title
   --------- -- --------   ---------------------------------------------
   RFC1108 PS ()           U.S. Department of Defense Security Options
                           for the Internet Protocol
   RFC1271 PS (rmonmib)    Remote Network Monitoring Management
                           Information Base
   RFC1272  I (acct)       Internet Accounting: Background
   RFC1273  I ()           A Measurement Study of Changes in
                           Service-Level Reachability in the Global
                           TCP/IP Internet: Goals, Experimental Design,
                           Implementation, and Policy Considerations
   RFC1274 PS ()           The COSINE and Internet X.500 Schema
   RFC1275  I (osids)      Replication and Distributed Operations
                           Extensions to Provide an Internet Directory
                           using X.500
   RFC1276 PS (osids)      Replication and Distributed Operations
                           extensions to Provide an Internet Directory
   RFC1277 PS (osids)      Encoding Network Addresses to support
                           operation over non-OSI lower layers
   RFC1278  I (osids)      A string encoding of Presentation Address
   RFC1279  E (osids)      X.500 and Domains
   RFC1281  I (spwg)       Guidelines for the Secure Operation of the
                           Internet

     8. IETF Submission to the First Internet Society Newsletter

     This is the first report on the Internet Engineering Task Force
     (IETF) in an Internet Society publication.  Therefore, I'd like to



Cooper                                                         [Page 22]

Internet Monthly Report                                    November 1991


     start by saying how exciting it is for the Internet Engineering
     Steering Group (IESG) and IETF to be part of the formation of a new
     professional society concerned with something very important to us
     all -- the global communications network called the Internet.  The
     IETF has played a key role under the Internet Activities Board
     (IAB) in many important Internet development activities.  We all
     look forward to working within the Internet Society in the future.

     Since this is an initial report on the IETF, I feel it is important
     to give an overview of the IETF, how it operates, and how to become
     more involved in the open IETF activities.  I will also give a
     brief report on the most recent IETF meeting, which took place in
     November 1991 in Santa Fe New Mexico, USA.

     IETF Overview

     The Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) is the protocol
     engineering, development, and standardization arm of the Internet
     Architecture Board (IAB).  The IETF began in January 1986 as a
     forum for technical coordination by contractors for the U.S.
     Defense Advanced Projects Agency (DARPA), working on the ARPANET,
     U.S. Defense Data Network (DDN), and the Internet core gateway
     system.  Since that time, the IETF has grown into a large open
     international community of network designers, operators, vendors,
     and researchers concerned with the evolution of the Internet
     protocol architecture and the smooth operation of the Internet.

     The IETF mission includes:

        1. Identifying and proposing solutions to pressing operational
           and technical problems in the Internet,

        2. Specifying the development (or usage) of protocols and the
           near-term architecture to solve such technical problems for
           the Internet,

        3. Making recommendations to the IAB regarding standardization
           of protocols and protocol usage in the Internet,

        4. Facilitating technology transfer from the Internet Research
           Task Force to the wider Internet community, and

        5. Providing a forum for the exchange of information within the
           Internet community between vendors, users, researchers,
           agency contractors, and network managers.

     Technical activity on any specific topic in the IETF is addressed
     within Working Groups (WG).  All Working Groups are organized



Cooper                                                         [Page 23]

Internet Monthly Report                                    November 1991


     roughly by function into nine technical areas.  Each is led by an
     Area Director who has primary responsibility for that one area of
     IETF activity.  Together with the Chair of the IETF, these nine
     technical Directors (plus, a director for Standards Procedures)
     compose the IESG.

     The current Areas and Directors, which compose the IESG, are:

            IETF and IESG Chair:      Phill Gross/ANS

            Applications:             Russ Hobby/UC-Davis
            Internet:                 Noel Chiappa/Consultant
                                      Philip Almquist/Consultant
            Network Management:       James Davin/ MIT
            OSI Integration:          David Piscitello/Bellcore
                                      Ross Callon/DEC (retiring)
            Operational Requirements: Susan Estrada/CERFnet
                                      Phill Gross/ANS
                                      Bernard Stockman/Nordunet
            Routing:                  Robert Hinden/BBN
            Security:                 Steve Crocker/TIS
            Transport and Services    Dave Borman/Cray Research
            User Services             Joyce Reynolds/ISI
            Standards Management:     Dave Crocker/DEC

     The IETF has a secretariat, headquartered at the Corporation for
     National Research Initiatives in Reston Virginia, with the
     following staff:

            IETF Executive Director:  Steve Coya
            IESG Secretary:           Greg Vaudreuil
            IETF Coordination:        Megan Davies
            Administrative Support:   Debra Legare
                                      Cynthia Clark

     The Working Groups conduct business during plenary meetings of the
     IETF, during meetings outside of the IETF, and via electronic mail
     on mailing lists established for each group.

     The IETF holds 4.5 day plenary sessions three times a year.  These
     plenary meetings are composed of Working Group sessions, technical
     presentations, network status briefings, WG reporting, and an open
     IESG meeting.  A Proceeding of each IETF plenary is published,
     which includes reports from each area, each WG, and each technical
     presentation.  The Proceedings includes a summary of all current
     standardization activities.





Cooper                                                         [Page 24]

Internet Monthly Report                                    November 1991


     Mailing Lists

     Much of the daily work of the IETF is conducted on electronic
     mailing lists.  There are mailing lists for each of the Working
     Groups, as well as a general IETF list.  Mail on the Working Group
     mailing lists is expected to be technically relevant to the Working
     Groups supported by that list.

     To join a mailing list, send a request to the associated request
     list.  All internet mailing lists have a companion "-request" list.
     Send requests to join a list to <listname>-request@<listhost>.

     Information and logistics about upcoming meetings of the IETF are
     distributed on the general IETF mailing list.  For general
     inquiries about the IETF, send a request to ietf-request@isi.edu.
     An archive of mail sent to the IETF list is available for anonymous
     ftp from the directory ~ftp/irg/ietf on venera.isi.edu

     On Line IETF Information

     The Internet Engineering Task Force maintains up-to-date on-line
     information on all its activities.  There is a directory containing
     Internet-Draft documents and a directory containing IETF working
     group information.  All this information is available in identical
     format for public access at several locations globally.  (See below
     for locations.)

     The "IETF" directory contains a general description of the IETF,
     summaries of ongoing working group activities and provides
     information on past and upcoming meetings.  The directory generally
     reflects information contained in the most recent IETF Proceedings
     and Working Group Reports.

     The "Internet-Drafts" directory makes available for review and
     comment draft documents that will be submitted ultimately to the
     IAB for standardization and/or submitted to the RFC Editor to be
     considered for publishing as an RFC.  Comments on Internet-Drafts
     from the wider Internet community (i.e., in addition to those
     attending the WG sessions at the IETF plenaries) are strongly
     encouraged and should be addressed to the responsible person whose
     name and electronic mail addresses are listed on the first page of
     the respective draft.

     The IETF Directory

     Below is a list of the files available in the IETF directory and a
     short synopsis of what each file contains.




Cooper                                                         [Page 25]

Internet Monthly Report                                    November 1991


     Files prefixed with a 0 contain information about upcoming
     meetings.  Files prefixed with a 1 contain general information
     about the IETF, the working groups, and the internet-drafts.

     FILE NAME

     0mtg-agenda      the current agenda for the upcoming quarterly
                      IETF plenary, which contains what Working Groups
                      will be meeting and at what times, and the
                      technical presentations and network status
                      reports to be given.
     0mtg-logistics   the announcement for the upcoming quarterly
                      IETF plenary, which contains specific
                      information on the date/location of the meeting,
                      hotel/airline arrangements, meeting site
                      accommodations and travel directions.
     0mtg-rsvp        a standardized RSVP form to be used to notify
                      the support staff of your plans to attend the
                      upcoming IETF meeting.
     0mtg-schedule    current and future meeting dates and sites for
                      IETF plenaries.
     1id-abstracts    the internet drafts current on-line in the
                      internet-drafts directory.
     1id-guidelines   instructions for authors of internet drafts.
     1ietf-overview   a short description of the IETF, the IESG and how
                      to participate.
     1wg-summary      a listing of all current Working Groups, the
                      working group chairmen and their email addresses,
                      working group mailing list addresses, and,
                      where applicable, documentation produced.  This
                      file also contains the standard acronym for the
                      working groups by which the IETF and Internet-Drafts
                      directories are keyed.

     Finally, Working Groups have individual files dedicated to their
     particular activities which contain their respective Charters and
     Meeting Reports.  Each Working Group file is named in this fashion:

             <standard wg abbreviation>-charter.txt
             <standard wg abbreviation>-minutes-date.txt

     Using FTP, the "dir" or "ls" command will permit you to review what
     Working Group files are available.

     The Internet-Drafts Directory

     The Internet-Drafts directory contains the current working
     documents of the IETF.  These documents are indexed in the file



Cooper                                                         [Page 26]

Internet Monthly Report                                    November 1991


     1id-abstracts.txt in the Internet-Drafts directory.

     The documents are named according to the following conventions.  If
     the document was generated in an IETF working group, the filename
     is:

             draft-ietf-<std wg abrev>-<docname>-<rev>.txt , or .ps

     where <std wg abrev> is the working group acronym, <docname> is a
     very short name, and <rev> is the revision number.

     If the document was submitted for comment by a non-ietf group or
     author, the filename is:

             draft-<org>-<author>-<docname>-<rev>.txt, or .ps

     where <org> is the organization sponsoring the work and <author> is
     the author's name.

     For more information on writing and installing an Internet-Draft,
     see the file 1id-guidelines, "Guidelines to Authors of Internet-
     Drafts".

     Directory Locations

     The directories are maintained primarily at the NSFnet Service
     Center (NNSC).  There are several official "shadow" machines which
     contain the IETF and INTERNET-DRAFTS directories in identical
     format.  These machines may be more convenient than nnsc.nsf.nsf.
     (Plus, there are numerous "unofficial" sites, that may also be more
     convenient for specific users.)

     To access these directories, use FTP.  After establishing a
     connection, Login with username ANONYMOUS and password GUEST. When
     logged in, change to the directory of your choice with the
     following commands:

             cd internet-drafts         cd ietf

     Individual files can then be retrieved using the GET command:

             get <remote filename>  <local filename>
             e.g., get 00README     readme.my.copy

     IETF Directory Locations

     NSF Network Service Center Address:  nnsc.nsf.net




Cooper                                                         [Page 27]

Internet Monthly Report                                    November 1991


     The Defense Data Network NIC Address:  nic.ddn.mil

          Internet-drafts are also available by mail server from this
          machine.  For more information mail a request:
          To:  service@nic.ddn.mil
          Subject:  Help

          NIC staff are happy to assist users with any problems that they
          may encounter in the process of obtaining files by FTP or
          "SERVICE".  For assistance, phone the NIC hotline at
          1-800-235-3155 between 6 am and 5 pm Pacific time.

     Pacific Rim Address:  munnari.oz.au

          The Internet-drafts on this machine are stored in Unix
          compressed form (.Z).

     Europe Address:  nic.nordu.net (192.36.148.17)

     Phill Gross (pgross@NRI.RESTON.VA.US)































Cooper                                                         [Page 28]

Internet Monthly Report                                    November 1991


INTERNET PROJECTS
-----------------

BARRNET
-------

     BARRNet connected two new sites at 56kbps and one site at T1 in
     November, bringing the total connected BARRNet membership to 105.
     One of the connected sites was the Bay Area Air Quality Management
     District, the first local government organization to join BARRNet.

     BARRNet also deployed the first new low-cost IP router manufactured
     by Network Application Technology, which has reduced the cost for
     an all-hardware-provided 56kbps connection to $6500 from over
     $10,000.

     by Paul Baer <baer@jessica.stanford.edu>

BOLT BERANEK AND NEWMAN INC.
----------------------------

     Terrestrial Wideband Network (TWBNet)

     During November, the TWBNet backbone nodes were upgraded with
     intelligent I/O interfaces (BI4s) for the trunk connections and a
     new software release.  In early December, BBN will be tuning
     internal operating parameters and conducting performance tests.
     The resulting high-speed Dual Bus Protocol (DBP) subsystem will
     provide:


        *    Decreased end-to-end delay across the network: Currently,
             each frame sees not only propagation delay but also a per-
             WPS-hop delay of 21.5 milliseconds.  With the new hardware,
             the per-hop delay will drop to 6 milliseconds.  The Boston
             to LA end-to-end delay is reduced by 77.5 milliseconds to
             66 milleseconds (a 54% improvement).

        *    Better trunk line bandwidth utilization and finer-grain
             allocation of stream capacity, hence higher available
             throughput:  The new hardware allows us to use 548 byte
             cells which are about half the current cell size.

        *    Increased tolerance to trunk line noise and errors: The BI4
             DBP implementation includes a better Phase Lock Loop
             algorithm for long-term frame timing.





Cooper                                                         [Page 29]

Internet Monthly Report                                    November 1991


     In addition to these performance improvements, the new release
     contains two other enhancements.  First, it supports running the
     TWBNet monitoring and control system on either a SPARC or SUN3
     platform.  Second, priority handling has been extended to cover
     discarding during overload: lower priority traffic is always
     discarded first.  This change allows the network to better support
     conferencing gateways which are connected by lower speed lines,
     e.g., 256Kbps, and which carry both IP and ST traffic.

     Inter-Domain Policy Routing

     During the month of November, we resumed work on IDPR.  Our near-
     term goal is technology transfer, namely making IDPR available in
     the Internet.  To this end, we have been working on the gated
     version of the IDPR software with SAIC, who is leading the gated
     development effort.  We have concentrated our efforts on
     configuration, designing a user interface, a parser, the database,
     and the interfaces between the IDPR functions and the database.

     ST Conferencing

     During November, the TWB backbone WPSs were upgraded with BI4
     processors, and conferencing personnel and equipment were involved
     in extensive release and operational testing.  Conferencing
     continued to run successfully after the upgrade.  One week of the
     month was reserved for this upgrade.  A total of 7 video
     conferences and 11 scheduled test conferences were conducted during
     November.  Two conferences involved three sites, and five
     conferences were point-to-point.  Some of the sponsored events
     included an ICB meeting at ISI, a seminar conducted with UCL
     including the University of London Livenet network, and a DISA
     meeting.

     Ft. Leavenworth was not reconnected to the TWB as a conferencing
     site during November, because the T1 tail circuit to the TWB was
     not yet available.  The RIACS conferencing site announced an
     impending move in December.  A new location for that conference
     center is still under investigation.  Present conferencing sites
     include Los Alamos, RIACS, ISI, DARPA, RADC, BBN, UCL London and
     WPC Germany.  To schedule a video conference, please send mail
     video-conf-request@bbn.com.

     Jil Westcott (westcott@bbn.com)








Cooper                                                         [Page 30]

Internet Monthly Report                                    November 1991


CONCERT
-------

     SAS Institute, Inc. was added to the CONCERT network during the
     month of November and now has Internet access.

     Four members of the CONCERT staff attended the IETF and FARNET
     meetings in Santa Fe.

     The CONCERT staff held a full day tutorial on LAN technology for
     representatives from several of the smaller North Carolina Colleges
     which will soon be connecting to the CONCERT network. This is one
     in a series of tutorials to be presented by the CONCERT staff to
     assist the schools in setting up their local networks and
     connecting to the CONCERT network.

     During the past month, CONCERT researchers have sucessfully
     demonstrated full motion video conferencing over a local ethernet
     network. They have achieved near broadcast quality video and audio
     teleconferencing over an existing workstation network. The
     prototype consists of video cameras, microphones, and monitors
     connected to two Compression Labs (CLI) Rembrant II/VP codecs. The
     codecs are connected via RS-449/422 interfaces to modified 3COM
     cards in a pair of IBM RS6000s. The RS6000s communicate via
     standard TCP/IP. The output of the CLI codecs is a constant bit
     stream at 640Kbps in each direction, corresponding to 12% of the
     available ethernet bandwidth. The video conferencing and normal
     computer traffic co-exist on the local area network without
     impacting the quality of service for the workstation users. Future
     plans include expanding from a local area network to a wide area
     network, moving the display from an external monitor to the display
     of the workstation, and expanding from point-to-point conferencing
     to multisite multi-user conferencing. These aspects will require
     significant research into the communications protocols at both the
     network and transport layer. Bandwidth reservation expansions for
     IP, multicast for TCP/IP, and network latency control will be
     investigated.

     With NSF sponsorship, MCNC and the CONCERT network will host a
     workshop on Teleconferencing and Packet Video scheduled for
     December 10 and 11.  The workshop will focus on on-going packet
     video projects, networking issues, compression and workstation
     technology, and current videoconferencing capabilities.

     by Tom Sandoski <tom@concert.net>






Cooper                                                         [Page 31]

Internet Monthly Report                                    November 1991


CSUNET (THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY NETWORK)
-----------------------------------------------

     The California State University network connected the Los Angeles
     County Office of Education.  LACOE plans to interconnect most of
     its ninety-five school districts which comprise over one-thousand
     schools in the LA, Orange, Riverside, and San Bernardino counties.

     Mike Marcinkevicz (mdm@CSU.net)

FARNET (FEDERATION OF AMERICAN RESEARCH NETWORKS)
-------------------------------------------------

     FARNET held its quarterly meeting on Nov. 18-19 in Santa Fe, NM,
     concurrently with the IETF.  Highlights of this meeting included a
     lively panel discussion on the question, "What IS Hardening the
     Network?" with presenters from NSF, NASA, DOE, IETF, and FARNET.
     We also had a visit from the Mystery User, who has proposed 10 new
     SDECs (Simple Diagnostic Error Codes) to assist the unwary in
     making sense of the Internet.  SDEC 01, for example, is "The
     hardware is bad."  An 11th SDEC was proposed and adopted at the
     meeting.  SDEC 11 is "The user is bad."  Other presentations
     included:  building and using trouble ticket systems (NEARnet),
     managing outsourcing contracts (CICnet and NYSERNet), training the
     customer (PSI), and analyzing network performance (CICnet/AT&T).

     FARNET is working with NSF, the mission agencies, the IETF, and
     other interested groups to establish well understood performance
     requirements for network services.  We will also be investigating
     new tools and procedures to improve network management and
     operations.

     On November 1 FARNET released an RFI for partners in responding to
     the forthcoming NSF solicitation for Interim NREN Network
     Information Services.

     NYSERNet and NorthWestNet have published excellent resource
     directories for new Internet users.  Contact FARNET for details.

     Information about FARNET can be obtained by anonymous ftp from host
     FARNET.ORG in the farnet directories.

     NREN lives!

     Laura Breeden (breeden@farnet.org)






Cooper                                                         [Page 32]

Internet Monthly Report                                    November 1991


GAO (Government Accounting Office)
---------------------------------

     Date:    Wed, 04 Dec 91 16:10:44 -0500
     From:    KH3@CU.NIH.GOV
     Subject: GAO Reports

     December 4, 1991

     Dear Internet or Bitnet Interest Group Moderator,

     Two additional U.S. General Accounting Office (GAO) reports are
     available over the Internet in our continuing test to determine
     whether there is sufficient interest within this community to
     warrant making all GAO reports available over the Internet.  They
     may be of interest to your group.

     The reports are in ASCII text format and available in the
     Anonymous FTP directory GAO-REPORTS at the NIH computer center
     (CU.NIH.GOV).  Use the FTP TEXT mode for down loading.

     1.  High Performance Computing:  Industry Uses of Supercomputers
         and High-Speed Networks, GAO/IMTEC-91-58, July 1991.
         Provides examples of how various industries are using
         supercomputers; identifies barriers preventing the increased
         use of supercomputers; and provides examples of how certain
         industries are using and benefiting from high-speed networks.
         (This report is identified as IMTEC-91.R58 in the FTP
         directory, and is 104,998 bytes or 1,966 lines long.)

     2.  High Performance Computing:  High-Speed Computer Networks in
         the United States, Europe, and Japan, GAO/IMTEC-91-69,
         September 1991.  Provides information on United States,
         European, and Japanese efforts to develop high-speed computer
         networks.  (This report is named IMTEC-91.R69 in the FTP
         directory, and is 162,584 bytes or 2,856 lines long.)

     The Anonymous FTP directory also contains 7 earlier reports, which
     are described in the file named REPORTS.  A list of GAO reports
     released since September 1991 is in the file named A-LIST; it is
     updated every week or two.










Cooper                                                         [Page 33]

Internet Monthly Report                                    November 1991


     So that we can keep a count of report recipients, and your
     reaction, please send an E-Mail message to KH3@CU.NIH.GOV and
     include, along with your E-Mail address, the following
     information:

     1)   Your organization.

     2)   Your position/title and name (optional).

     3)   The title/report number of the above reports you have
          retrieved electronically or ordered by mail or phone.

     4)   Whether you have ever obtained a GAO report before.

     5)   Whether you have copied a report onto another bulletin
          board--if so, which report and bulletin board.

     6)   Other GAO report subjects you would be interested in.  GAO's
          reports cover a broad range of subjects such as major
          weapons systems, energy, financial institutions, and
          pollution control.

     7)   Any additional comments or suggestions.

     Thank you for your time.

     Sincerely,

     Jack L. Brock, Jr.
     Director,
     Government Information and Financial
     Management Issues
     Information Management and Technology Division

ISI
---

     GIGABIT NETWORKING

     INFRASTRUCTURE

     Joyce Reynolds, Bob Braden, and Jon Postel, attended the IETF
     meeting in Santa Fe, NM, November 18 - Nov. 22.

     11 RFCs were published this month.

        RFC 1270: Kastenholz, F., "SNMP Communications Services"
                  Clearpoint Research Corporation, October 1991



Cooper                                                         [Page 34]

Internet Monthly Report                                    November 1991


        RFC 1271: Waldbusser, S., "Remote Network Monitoring
                  Management Information Base", November 1991.

        RFC 1272: Mills, C., (BBN), D. Hirsh (Meridian Tech),
                  G. Ruth (BBN), "INTERNET ACCOUNTING: BACKGROUND"
                  November 1991.

        RFC 1273: Schwartz, M., "A Measurement Study of Changes in
                  Service-Level Reachability in the Global TCP/IP
                  Internet: Goals, Experimental Design, Implementation,
                  and Policy Considerations", University of Colorado,
                  November 1991.

        RFC 1274: Barker, P., S. Kille, "The COSINE and Internet
                  X.500 Schema", University College London,
                  November 1991.

        RFC 1275: Hardcastle-Kille, S.E., "Replication Requirements to
                  Provide an Internet Directory Using X.500", University
                  College London, November 1991.

        RFC 1276: Hardcastle-Kille, "Replication and Distributed
                  Operations Extensions to Provide an Internet
                  Directory Using X.500

        RFC 1277: Hardcastle-Kille, "Encoding Network Addresses to
                  Support Operation Over non-OSI Lower Layers, University
                  College London, November 1991.

        RFC 1278: Hardcastle-Kille, "A String Encoding of Presentation
                  Address", University College London, November 1991.

        RFC 1279: Hardcastle-Kille, "X.500 and Domains", University
                  College London, November 1991.

        RFC 1281: "Pethia, R., (Software Engineering Inst.), S. Crocker
                  (Trusted Info. Systems), B. Fraser (Software
                  Engineering Inst.), "Guidelines for the Secure
                  Operation of The Internet" November 1991.

        PAPERS PUBLISHED

        Finn, G., "An Integration of Network Communication with Workstation
                   Architecture Computer Communication Review", Vol. 21,
                   No. 5, October 1991, pp. 18-27.

     Ann Westine Cooper (Cooper@ISI.EDU)




Cooper                                                         [Page 35]

Internet Monthly Report                                    November 1991


     MULTIMEDIA CONFERENCING

     At the IETF meeting in Santa Fe, a BOF session was held to explore
     teleconferencing in the Internet.  Several areas of interest were
     identified, one of which was deemed ready for a working group.  The
     Audio/Video Transport WG, chaired by Steve Casner, will specify
     protocols for real-time transmission of audio and video over UDP to
     foster interoperation among experimental systems.  Discussion of
     this WG can be followed by subscribing to rem-conf-request@es.net.

     A new technical report was published this month, "A Distributed
     Architecture for Multimedia Conference Control".  It can be
     retrieved electronically via anonymous FTP from venera.isi.edu.
     The file is located in the pub directory as mmc-mmcc.ps along with
     other mmc-* documents (see mmc-README for further details).

     Steve Casner, Eve Schooler (casner@ISI.EDU, schooler@ISI.EDU)

JVNCNET
-------

  I.  General information

  A. How to reach us:

        1-800-35-TIGER  (from anywhere in the United States)

            E-MAIL:
                NOC:  noc@jvnc.net
                Service desk:  service@jvnc.net

            US MAIL:
                Princeton University
                B6 von Neumann Hall
                Princeton, NJ  08544
                (Director: Sergio Heker)

     B. Hours

        NOC:  24 hours/day, seven days a week
        Service desk:  9:00 to 5:00 pm, M - F (except holidays)

     C. Other info available on-line from NICOL

        Telnet to nicol.jvnc.netS.
        Login ID is nicol and no password.





Cooper                                                         [Page 36]

Internet Monthly Report                                    November 1991


  II.  New Information

  A. RFCs on-line

        To obtain RFCs from the official JvNCnet repository
        (two methods)

            ftp nicol.jvnc.net; username:  nicol;  password: <your
            email address>

            RFC automailer
            Send email to sendrfc@jvnc.net.  Subject line is RFCxxxx.
            xxxx represents the RFC number.  RFCs with three digits
            only need three digits in the request.

     B. Operational information

        JvNCnet availability for October is 99.95%.

     C. New on-line members

        Seton Hall University, Madison, NJ
        St. Peter's College, Jersey City, NJ
        The College of Saint Elizabeth, Convent Station, NJ
        Monmouth College, Longbranch, NJ
        Drew University, Madison, NJ
        William Paterson College, Paterson, NJ
        Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, Cold Spring Harbor, NY
        Ramapo College, Ramapo, NJ
        Hahnemann University, Philadelphia, PA.
        Stockton State College, Pomona, NJ
        Atlantic County Community College, Mays Landing, NJ
        Advanced Media Laboratory of Samsung Electronics,
          Lawrenceville, NJ
        Adelphi University, Garden City, NY

     D. JvNCnet Members Meeting

        The next members meeting is scheduled for Friday, January 17,
        1992 at Lewis Thomas Laboratory Auditorium 003 (Washington Road,
        Princeton University). In addition to parallel sessions
        including X.500 directory service, engineering enhancements for
        gateway and host services, member requests for additional
        information services, Switched Multi-Data System and Frame Relay
        tutorials will be presented.  Agenda and travel information are
        being prepared for electronic dissemination and regular mailing.
        For further information, please send email to hammer@jvnc.net.




Cooper                                                         [Page 37]

Internet Monthly Report                                    November 1991


     E. JvNCnet Symposium Series

        New Internet users will receive an opportunity to learn about
        helpful Internet-accessible applications, for more efficiency
        and productivity, as well as network services by attending the
        JvNCnet Symposium, NETWORK APPLICATIONS,on Friday, January 24,
        1992 at Lewis Thomas Laboratory Auditorium 003, Washington Road,
        Princeton University. A finalized agenda is expected shortly.
        Please send inquiries to pihl@jvnc.net.

     F. Megabytes newsletter

        The fall 1991 issue has been published (volume 1, issue 2). A
        postscript file is available via anonymous ftp to nicol.jvnc.net
        under nicol/megabytes directory.  If you want your name added to
        the mailing list, please send email to megabytes-
        request@jvnc.net.

        by Rochelle Hammer (hammer@jvnc.net)

LOS NETTOS
----------

     OSPF testing continues

     Plans are in progress to provide an alternate EGP peer to the San
     Diego NSS for Los Nettos route and to load share across the peers.
     This will give us a backup if the primary EGP peer session fails.

     A new accounting system for Los Nettos is almost complete.  The old
     system has been running on a Tops 20 machine which is being shut
     down.

     Walt Prue (Prue@ISI.EDU)

MERIT/MICHNET
-------------

     As of December 1, 1991, MichNet will implement PPP Authorization in
     the network. Any PPP user will be able to authorize for basic
     service (within Michigan and Net 35) or full service. Full service
     authorizers must have an account on an accredited host.

     As part of our continuing work to upgrade the network backbone,
     many of our links have been upgraded in the past few months.
     Several more link improvements are planned for the near future.

     The network link between Central Michigan University in Mount



Cooper                                                         [Page 38]

Internet Monthly Report                                    November 1991


     Pleasant and Michigan State University in East Lansing was upgraded
     from 9600 to 56 thousand bits per second early in the fall.

     Links between the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor and Western
     Michigan University in Kalamazoo, and between Wayne State
     University in Detroit and Oakland University in Rochester have been
     upgraded from 56 thousand bits per second to T1 (1.5 million bits
     per second).

     The Grand Rapids Regional Center is enjoying improved connections
     with the rest of the network now that the 9600 bits per second link
     with Michigan State has been upgraded to 56 thousand bits per
     second.

     The link to Saginaw Valley State University has been upgraded from
     9600 to 56,000 bits per second.

     New Affiliates: Warner Lambert Parke-Davis of Ann Arbor has become
     MichNet's newest affiliate.

     Conferences: Many MichNet staff members attended conferences in
     October and November. Laura Bollettino and Ellen Hoffman attended
     Educom. Pat McGregor attended ACM SIGUCCS. Chris Weider, Ellen
     Hoffman, Dale Johnson, Allan Rubens, Glenn McGregor, and Larry
     Blunk attended IETF. Jeff Ogden, Dale Johnson, and Ellen Hoffman
     attended FARNET. Mark Davis-Craig presented at the Merit Seminar in
     Baltimore, and afterward attended the SURANet regional meeting.

     Reorganization: Merit Network, Inc. has had some internal
     reorganization in the past few months. Jeff Ogden is now the Merit
     Associate Director for MichNet.  The NSFNET Information Services
     group and the MichNet Technical Support group have been reorganized
     into a new Network Information Center, managed by Ellen Hoffman,
     formerly assistant to Merit's president. Scott Gerstenberger has
     become Associate Director for UMnet, the campus network of the
     University of Michigan.

     by Pat McGregor <patmcg@merit.edu>

NEARNET (NEW ENGLAND ACADEMIC AND RESEARCH NETWORK)
---------------------------------------------------

     NEARnet has grown to 108 members.

     The fifth NEARnet Technical and User Seminar will be held on
     December 12, 1991 at the Brandeis University Events Center in
     Waltham, Massachusetts.




Cooper                                                         [Page 39]

Internet Monthly Report                                    November 1991


     The tenth issue of the electronic bulletin "NEARnet This Month" has
     been distributed.  Past issues of the bulletin are available via
     anonymous FTP at nic.near.net, in the directory
     /newsletters/nearnet_this_month.

     John Curran attended the FARNET meeting in Santa Fe, New Mexico and
     spoke about the value of each regional network establishing
     membership agreements with their clients.  Dan Long also attended
     the FARNET meeting and presented an overview of the NEARnet Trouble
     Tracking System and the UCP Working Group activities.

     by John Rugo <jrugo@nic.near.net

NNSC, UCAR/BOLT BERANEK and NEWMAN, INC.
----------------------------------------

     John Curran attended the User Services Working Group at the IETF in
     Santa Fe, New Mexico.

     On behalf of the NNSC, John Rugo gave a presentation on the
     Internet at a meeting sponsored by the Boston Chapter of the
     Special Libraries Association in Cambridge, Massachusetts.

     Corinne Carroll <ccarroll@nnsc.nsf.net>

NSFNET/ANSNET BACKBONE ENGINEERING
----------------------------------

     Summary

     During November the T3 backbone network continued to perform well,
     with significantly fewer outages and new problems than had been
     experienced in prior months.  Some new enhancements were applied,
     and some remaining problems were resolved in preparation for the
     transition to support a full load of traffic.  The T1 backbone
     still exhibits some congestion, although several problems were
     resolved which has reduced the severity of the connectivity and
     performance problems.  We are planning for a change freeze and
     "stability period" during which no changes will be made to the T3
     backbone.  Attached NSF midlevel and regional networks will be
     solicited to introduce an artificial load of traffic onto the T3
     backbone to experiment with the routing conversion and migration
     plan.  Following the stability test period and the correction of
     any problems that are identified during this period, traffic can be
     moved over from the T1 to T3 backbone.






Cooper                                                         [Page 40]

Internet Monthly Report                                    November 1991


     T1 Backbone Update

     The T1 backbone NSS's have been experiencing loss of EGP sessions
     with several regional network peers. This problem has diminished at
     several sites with the installation of new RT kernel (build 277)
     software that contains some buffering enhancements, and ethernet
     and token ring driver performance enhancements.  The buffering
     changes also fix a problem that caused delays in getting link state
     changes announced to the rest of the nodes in the backbone in a
     timely fashion. This software build has been deployed throughout
     the T1 backbone NSS's, including the split-EPSPs nodes located at
     remote sites (eg.  CERN, Switzerland). However even with these
     changes, we continue to experience some EGP session loss problems
     which we have isolated to exist within the RCP node within he NSS.
     For reasons that have not yet been determined, the RCP will
     occasionally delay sending responses to EGP packets for up to
     several minutes at a time.  We have installed a new version of the
     rcp_routed software that has improved diagnostic capabilities to
     help identify the exact cause of the problem.

     T3 Backbone Update

     IBGP Disconnect Problem

     We were observing occaisional disconnects of the Internal Border
     Gateway Protocol (IBGP) sessions between ENSS and CNSS nodes in the
     T3 system.  This problem was due to a faulty DS3 interface
     adapter/DSU hardware pair on the T3 backbone link between Chicago
     and Cleveland.  Packets traversing this link in the westward
     direction occasionally became altered in a systematic pattern of
     byte reordering such that the data passed the TCP checksum at the
     IBGP receiver end.  The BGP protocol handler detected the
     corruption and dropped the session. This problem stopped occurring
     once this link was rehomed to a different interface at the Chicago
     POP. We also plan to improve the link level error detection before
     cutting the bulk of the traffic to the T3 network.

     Safety Net

     Safety Net represents the addition of 12 T1 links interconnecting
     the core backbone router CNSS nodes that also support T3 links.
     These safety net links are installed between the POP sites and do
     not connect to the ENSS nodes.  Currently 10 of these 12 links are
     fully installed and configured.  The T1 link metrics are designed
     so that a T1 path is used only if all other T3 paths to adjacent
     CNSS nodes become unreachable.  This has already proven useful on a
     few occasions, including one where the T1/T3 interconnect gateway
     lost its T3 connectivity. The T1 link allowed the gateway to



Cooper                                                         [Page 41]

Internet Monthly Report                                    November 1991


     function with no interruption of service or session loss, although
     performance was not optimal because of the delays due to congestion
     on this link. The remaining two T1 links will be installed in mid-
     December.

     T1/T3 Interconnect Gateways

     The routing design for load sharing among the T1/T3 interconnect
     gateways (at Ann Arbor, Houston and San Diego) is nearly complete
     and we expect to enable this in December. This requires a small
     amount of work to the policy routing configuration database
     procedures to allow a bulk update of network numbers to be
     administered. This introduced in two phases where T3 routes will
     first be split across the interconnect gateways in the
     announcements to the T1 backbone, and then the same procedure will
     subsequently be administered on the T3 backbone. The process will
     take a week or so to complete, and we expect this to occur without
     undue downtime.

     Route Loss

     A new problem with routing on T3 has surfaced during November.  On
     about 5 occasions in November, a CNSS or ENSS router in the T3
     system lost some of the networks in its routing tables, requiring a
     manual reset of the routing software.  During one such recent event
     we determined that the rcp_routed software did not correctly
     identify the status of an external peer session which caused the
     route loss to occur.  A fix has been applied to the rcp_routed
     software to correct this and continue to watch for any recurrence
     of this problem.  We are running a shell script that identifies if
     a node loses routes, to allow the NOC to correct this in a timely
     fashion. The NOC will continue to gather logging and routing table
     dumps to be analyzed if this problem happens again.  This problem
     must be solved as a pre-requisite prior to the "stability week"
     period.

     New External BGP Peers

     Several sites have been cooperating with us to establish external
     BGP peer sessions with the T3 system.  This is helping to reduce
     the volume of traffic associated with large external routing
     updates.  Several router vendors have cooperated in fixing problems
     and are helping us to tune these implementations.  We are pleased
     with the results so far, and we continue to encourage peer networks
     to support BGP routing exchanges with us.






Cooper                                                         [Page 42]

Internet Monthly Report                                    November 1991


     Phase III T3 Network Preparation

     C-Bit Parity

     C-Bit parity provides real-time end-to-end performance monitoring
     and link error reporting for DS3 circuits (similar to ESF on T1).
     Work is now underway to implement and test the C-Bit Parity feature
     on the DS-3 links and DSU interfaces.  New non-intrusive C-Bit
     parity monitoring units are being installed on the MCI provided
     transmission facilities allow real time link problems to be
     isolated out-of-band from a remote monitoring center.

     RS/960 DS3 Cards

     Testing is in progress for the new RS/960 "smart" cards for the
     RS/6000 routers.  These new DS3 interfaces and DSU cards will allow
     card-to-card transfer of packets across the microchannel without
     involving the RS/6000 system processor.  The new cards will also
     allow a configuration of 5 interfaces to be installed per node
     rather than 4.  This introduces new options for the CNSS router
     configuration within the POP sites.  The current estimated
     timeframe for begining the RS/960 card installations is
     February/March 1992, contingent upon the completion of the current
     T3 network stabilization activities.  The installations will be
     administered in a phased fashion to minimize disruption of the
     production network.  Enhanced testing in the labs and on the
     research network will be done in a detailed fashion.  Lab testing
     has proceeded smoothly an the wide area test network test plan is
     being finalized now.

     Mark Knopper, Merit Network Inc., (mak@merit.edu)
     Jordan Becker, Advanced Network & Services, Inc., (becker@ans.net)

NSFNET/INFORMATION SERVICES
---------------------------

     During November 1991, 11,223,611,197 inbound packets traversed the
     T1 and T3 infrastructures, a 0.4% decrease from October's
     11,267,961,959 combined inbound packet traffic.

     NSFNET T1 infrastructure traffic totaled 10,112,861,182 inbound
     packets, including traffic entering from the T3 network. Networks
     announced to the T1 NSFNET now number 3,751, with 1,302 foreign
     networks as part of this total.

     Traffic on the T3 infrastructure totaled 1,586,680,321 inbound
     packets, including traffic entering from the T1 network.  At the
     close of November, 907 networks have announcement to the T3



Cooper                                                         [Page 43]

Internet Monthly Report                                    November 1991


     infrastructure.

     Merit has received an additional $754,701 under the National
     Science Foundation cooperative agreement to provide T3 connectivity
     to two NASA sites, the NASA-Ames Research Center and NASA-Goddard
     Space Flight Center. These connections, one directly to Ames and a
     second for Goddard at College Park, will be implemented in early
     1992. This brings Merit's total NSFNET award to $28,754,701 over
     five years.

     Susan Calcari, of Merit/NSFNET Information Services, gave an
     overview of the NSFNET project and internet resources to the Human
     Factors Society in New York City.  The fall meeting of SIGUCCS in
     Seattle was attended by Pat Smith and Laura Kelleher of
     Merit/NSFNET Information Services.  A member of the Networking Task
     Force Working Group, Smith spoke on Internet resources.  The FARNET
     and IETF meetings in Sante Fe were well attended by Merit/NSFNET
     staff.  Mark Knopper, manager of Internet Engineering, and Ellen
     Hoffman, manager of Information Services, represented Merit at
     FARNET.  Knopper gave update presentations on the NSFNET
     infrastructures to FARNET and IETF sessions.  Smith is active on
     the USWG, co-chairing the NISI Working Group.  Sue Hares and
     Jessica Yu, Internet Engineering, and Dale Johnson, manager of the
     Network Operations Center, also attended IETF proceedings.  Elise
     Gerich of Internet Engineering, was the Merit/NSFNET representative
     to the IEPG meeting, also held in Santa Fe.  Technical support for
     the T1 network at Super Computing '91 in Albuquerque was provided
     by John Scudder of Merit/Internet Engineering.  The fall meeting of
     the Coalition for Networked Information in Arlington, VA was
     attended by Kelleher, who participates in the Directories and
     Resource Information Services working group.

     The November Merit Networking Seminar held in College Park, MD, was
     well received by over 120 registrants.  The next Merit Networking
     Seminar is scheduled for April 13-14, 1992 in Las Vegas, NV.
     Seminar information is available from 1-800-66-MERIT or electronic
     mail to seminar@merit.edu.

     Jo Ann Ward (jward@merit.edu)

PITTSBURGH SUPERCOMPUTING CENTER
--------------------------------

     The PSC has signed an agreement with Cray Research, Inc. to replace
     the center's Cray Y-MP8 system with the newly announced Cray Y-MP
     C90.  The agreement provides that the PSC will receive the first
     C90 available to a non-government research center.  Delivery is
     scheduled for October of 1992.  The C90 has sixteen processing



Cooper                                                         [Page 44]

Internet Monthly Report                                    November 1991


     units, twice as many as the Y-MP8. Each processor is capable of
     performing a billion calculations per second.  It will come
     configured with 256 million words, (2 billion bytes) of memory,
     eight times that of the Y-MP8, and will be upgraded to 512 million
     words in 1993.

     The PSC's networking staff provided significant contributions to
     the design and implementation of the network (SCinet) for the
     Supercomputing '91 Conference held November 18-22 in Albequerque,
     N.M.  These contributions ranged from designing SCinet's internal
     FDDI and ethernet infrastructure, providing administrative support
     in assigning and tracking network address assginments, host names,
     etc, to participating in implementing and running the network at
     the conference.

     The joint PSC and Lawrence Berkeley Labs booth at the conference
     featured a demonstration of the first cross-country real time
     imaging application utilizing the Internet, the Cray YMP and the
     Thinking Machine's CM-2.  The data flow rate achieved by this demo
     was limited by the performance of the currently available FDDI
     interfaces.

     Jamshid Mahdavi of the PSC participated in the Northwest Net
     Conference held in Pasco Washington.  He spoke about the creation
     of the Distributed High Speed Computing Library, (DHSC) and
     applications on which he has been working.  This library will allow
     our users to write applications that can be distributed across the
     Cray and the CM.

     Gene Hastings participated in a FARNET panel discussion on the
     hardening of mid-level networks.

     Additions to and requests for Internet connectivity for the month
     include five networks through PREPnet regional: Lincoln University,
     Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh, Fore Systems, Telebase Systems,
     and BIOSYS.

     by Stephen Cunningham <cunningham@b.psc.edu>

PREPNET
-------

     This report covers PREPnet activities for October and November.

     PREPnet has five new members, which brings our total membership to
     61.  Allegheny College is connected to the Northwest hub via a
     56Kbps link.  Munin Systems is served by the Pittsburgh hub.  Fore
     Systems, Inc.  will be connected to the Pittsburgh hub via a 56Kbps



Cooper                                                         [Page 45]

Internet Monthly Report                                    November 1991


     link.

     Additional new members are Telebase Systems, Inc. and BIOSIS.
     Telebase Systems is a commercial information provider whose
     product, EasyNet, provides a common interface to more than 850
     databases.  BIOSIS provides the Life Science Network and Biological
     Abstracts as part of EasyNet's service.  BIOSIS and Telebase
     Systems will be connected to the Philadelphia hub via a 56Kbps
     link.

     In October, Tom Bajzek represented PREPnet at the EDUCOM meeting.
     Tom also spoke about PREPnet and the Internet at the annual
     conference of the Appalachian Regional Commission in Knoxville, TN,
     where the theme was "Telecommunications for Rural Competitiveness."

     In November, PREPnet held its Annual General Member Meeting in
     Pittsburgh.  Approximately 130 people attended the meeting.
     Discussions included national networking issues, how our members
     are using their connections, and PREPnet's decision to move to CPE
     (Customer Premise Equipment).

     The change to CPE moved the demarcation point from the member's
     ethernet interface to the end of the circuit at the member's site.
     This move affects the initial equipment costs for our members,
     since they can now purchase their equipment from several sources;
     provides options for maintenance and maintenance costs for their
     equipment; and provides flexibility in the use of their equipment.

     Marsha Perrott participated in the November IETF in Santa Fe.
     During that same week, Tom Bajzek attended the FARNET meeting, also
     held in Santa Fe.

     PREPnet NIC (prepnet+@andrew.cmu.edu)

SAIC
----
     During the month of November we were unable to complete that parser
     and kernel portions of the gated implementation as planned because
     of unresolved issues in interpretation of the spec and the latest
     configuration document.  This problem is being resolved and
     improved functionality and clearer documentation will result.

     Chi Chu, Ken Carlberg, and Robert Woodburn attended the 22nd IETF
     in Santa Fe.  Discussions in the IDPR Working Group meetings
     centered on a few design issues, the functionality in the gated
     implementation, and issues related to the Router Requirements
     Working Group.  The latter included the feasability of IDPR
     integration into the IP routing table, ICMP handling in an



Cooper                                                         [Page 46]

Internet Monthly Report                                    November 1991


     encapsulated environment, TTL processing, and IGP interactions.

     Chi Chu has been analyzing results of an NVLAP conformance test for
     accredidation of a new test facility.  Ken Carlberg presented a
     paper on mobile hosts at the mobile hosts BOF.  The paper is in
     draft version and is entitled, "An Architecture That Supports the
     Routing of Mobile End Systems".  Copies of this document may be
     obtained by sending mail to "kgc@cseic.saic.com".

     We also welcome a new member of the Network Design and Analysis
     group, Treit Lu.  Mr. Lu will be developing an Ada API for X.400
     services.

     Planned Activities:

     Completion of the new parser design based on the new configuration
     document.  When Chi Chu has finished the NVLAP analysis, he will be
     able to continue with the IDPR kernel modifications.

     Ken Carlberg is planning to begin a prototyping effort based upon
     his study of mobile end systems.

     Robert Allen Woodburn (woody@cseic.saic.com)

SAN DIEGO SUPERCOMPUTER CENTER
------------------------------

     SDSC continues its research efforts in the development of a
     systematic methodology for network analysis and performance
     testing.  Kim Claffy completed the initial draft of a collaborative
     effort with colleagues in Japan to characterize international
     academic and research traffic between the Asian and American
     continents. The paper was introduced at the 13 November IEPG in
     Santa Fe by Jun Murai (U-Tokyo). Claffy and Hans-Werner Braun are
     also communicating with other researchers about broadening the
     scope of the analysis and performance efforts.

     On November 6, Hans-Werner Braun attended a Gigabit Testbed Review
     in Washington, D.C. as one of the CASA testbed representatives.
     Hans-Werner Braun particpated in the 7 Nov 1991 IAB conference
     call, as well as the 19 Nov 1991 IAB meeting in Santa Fe.  He also
     attended the IEPG conference in Santa Fe, NM (November 13-15),
     which was partly held in conjunction with the CCIRN. Further
     discussions on issues surrounding NREN engineering are continuing,
     including at a meeting on 20 November 1991 in Santa Fe.  Attendees
     were Bob Aiken and George Strawn of NSF, Peter Ford of LANL, and
     Hans-Werner Braun.




Cooper                                                         [Page 47]

Internet Monthly Report                                    November 1991


     Active involvement in the Casa Gigabit Testbed effort continues,
     and SDSC is hosting a CASA project wide workshop in December.  Dan
     Massey of SDSC continues to collaborate with LANL on HIPPI network
     simulation efforts.

     On Dec. 14th, SDSC will be having Flag Day - We will be redoing the
     interior routing at SDSC to use EGP as routing protocol, to give
     better access to the T3 NSFnet.

     SDSC has also started plans for IETF in March 1992, which they will
     be hosting.  Paul Love attend IETF in Santa Fe, NM.

     by Paul Love <loveep@sdsc.edu>

SRI
----

     SRI's Network Information System Center (NISC) is currently working
     on an update to the TCP/IP CD-ROM and expects it to be available in
     January 1992.  New information, such as Release 7.0 of the ISODE
     software, will be included.  Additionally, versions of the document
     files will be included that will be easily readable on Macs.  We're
     open to suggestions for any additional updates and invite users to
     contact us with their comments.

     The NISC is also developing an Internet User Guide to explain what
     the Internet is, how to become a part of it, and what to do once
     you're connected.  This guide will be available first quarter 1992.

     Orders are currently being taken, for the Internet Technology
     Series (ITS), which includes the six-volume Internet Technology
     Handbook (ITH), the TCP/IP CD-ROM and its update, and the Internet
     Technology Subscription.  The ITH is a value-added network document
     that will update and supercede the 1985 DDN Protocol Handbook.
     Each component of the ITS is also available separately.

     For more information about these or other hardcopy documents
     available from the NISC, call 1-415-859-NETS or send a message to
     nisc@nisc.sri.com.

     Sue Kirkpatrick (sue@nisc.sri.com)










Cooper                                                         [Page 48]

Internet Monthly Report                                    November 1991


SURANET
-------

     Technical Meeting

     SURAnet held its Technical Meeting on November 12th - 15th at the
     Adult Education Center of the University of Maryland at College
     Park.  Seventy people from all parts of the region attended.  The
     Technical Meeting followed a joint Merit/SURAnet seminar that was
     held at the same location on November 11th and 12th.

     IETF & FARnet Meetings

     Four members of SURAnet staff attended the IETF meeting in Santa
     Fe, New Mexico on November 18th - 22nd as well as the FARnet
     meeting also held in Santa Fe on November 18th and 19th.

     New Topology:

     SURAnet is in the process of establishing a new topology; one which
     will consist of collocated equipment at MCI Points of Presence
     (POPs) in the Southeast.  The majority of SURAnet members will be
     directly connected to an MCI POP and each POP will have physical
     redundancy.  Members will benefit by reduced local loop costs,
     enhanced services and improved reliability.

     by Peter Liebscher <plieb@sura.net>

UCL
----

     Crowcroft & Kirstein attended an ICB meeting at ISI, followed by a
     meeting on International Collaboration on Multimedia Tele-
     Conferencing.  Kirstein also attended the IETF, charing a working
     group on ODA and attending a working meeting on Video Conferencing.

     UCL demonstrated their ISDN IP gateway at the Esprit week in
     Brussels, which was used by several other organisations at the
     conference site when the X.25 failed.

     Crowcroft presented a paper on Computer Supported Collaborative
     Authoring at a DTI CSCW meeting.

     John Crowcroft (j.crowcroft@CS.UCL.AC.UK)







Cooper                                                         [Page 49]

Internet Monthly Report                                    November 1991


UNIVERSITY OF DELAWARE
----------------------


     1.   Work continues on checkout of the NTP Version-3 time daemon
          implementation for Unix. A data capture facility has been
          implemented in order to properly test and monitor its
          operation.  Device drivers have been constructed for WWVB and
          CHU receivers.  The new version is now running in all net-
          128.4 Unix platforms.

     2.   An unexpected opportunity to explore rambunctious protocol-
          machine interactions occurred when all timing sources for
          DARTNET were lost over the Thanksgiving recess. Latent bugs
          were found in the Version-2 implementations, which resulted in
          subtle changes to the Version-3 specification, implementation
          and simulation utilities.

     3.   An intricate experiment is being conducted in order to assess
          the ultimate accuracy expectations of various timekeeping
          platforms and radio clocks available to the Internet
          community. The experiment required recalibration of our cesium
          clock at the U.S. Naval Observatory, together with careful
          measurements conducted over the last two months between it and
          receivers for GPS, WWVB, WWV and CHU. Preliminary results
          confirm that all radios on occasion must be expected to
          deviate considerably outside their specified tolerance
          envelope, sometimes for exotic cause, even in the case of GPS
          receivers. We have found explanations for most of these
          deviations, but are still working on the remainder.

     4.   We are still working on bringing up experiments and video
          equipment for DARTNET. Shortly before silicon apparently fried
          on our video codec, our pictures were being monitored at MIT.
          Repairs are underway.

          Dave Mills (Mills@UDEL.EDU)

WISCNET
-------

     The WiscNet Board met at UW-Platteville on November 7, 1991.  Items
     considered included reports by the Facility Manager, the Finance
     Committee, the Technical Committee, and the User Services
     Committte.  The Finance and Membership Committees met jointly
     before the Board meeting to discuss membership classes, fees, and
     backdoor connections.  A consensus on backdoor connections was
     reached and will be further developed before the next meeting.



Cooper                                                         [Page 50]

Internet Monthly Report                                    November 1991


     The WiscNet User Services Committee is organizing our first-ever
     WiscNet conference entitled "WiscNet: Highway to Resources --
     Providing Services Easily and Effectively.", to be held in Stevens
     Point Wisconsin on April 27-29, 1992. Paul Evan Peters, Director of
     the Coalition for Networked Information will be the keynote
     speaker.  The conference will be linked to the Wisconsin
     Association of Academic Librarians (WAAL) conference, which runs
     April 29-May 1.

     The Milwaukee School of Engineering, a independent college located
     in Milwaukkee Wisconsin, has applied for membership and has been
     accepted

     Michael Dorl (dorl@vms.macc.wisc.edu)





































Cooper                                                         [Page 51]

Internet Monthly Report                                    November 1991


DIRECTORY SERVICES
------------------

This section of the Internet Monthly is devoted to efforts working to
develop directory services that are for, or effect, the Internet.  We
would like to encourage any organization with news about directory
service activities to use this forum for publishing brief monthly news
items.  The current reporters list includes:

        o IETF OSIDS Working Group
        o IETF DISI Working Group                               [X]
        o Field Operational X.500 Project
           - ISI
           - Merit                                              [X]
           - PSI
           - SRI
        o National Institute of Standards and Technology        [X]
        o North American Directory Forum                        [X]
        o OSI Implementor's Workshop                            [X]
        o PARADISE Project
        o PSI DARPA/NNT X.500 Project
        o PSI WHITE PAGES PILOT
        o Registration Authority Committee (ANSI USA RAC)
        o U.S. Department of State, Study Group D,
            MHS Management Domain subcommittee (SG-D MHS-MD)

                [X] indicates no report this month

Tom Tignor (tpt2@isi.edu)
DS Report Coordinator

IETF OSIDS WORKING GROUP
------------------------

     The OSI-DS WG did not meet in Santa Fe, as it had recently met at
     Interop.

     The following WG documents have been progressed as RFCs:

     RFC 1274:  The COSINE and Internet X.500 Schema

     RFC 1275:  Replication Requirements to provide an Internet
                Directory using X.500

     RFC 1276:  Replication and Distributed Operations
                extensions to provide an Internet Directory
                using X.500




Cooper                                                         [Page 52]

Internet Monthly Report                                    November 1991


     RFC 1277:  Encoding Network Addresses to support operation
                over non-OSI lower layers

     RFC 1278:  A string encoding of Presentation Address

     RFC 1279:  X.500 and Domains

     There has been extensive electrong discussion on new attributes for
     the schema.  It is hoped that this will resolve soon into a new
     version of RFC 1274.

     Christian Huitema suggested an alternate approach to naming
     organisations to that proposed in OSI-DS 12.  There has been an
     electronic survey of the WG to attempt to progress this issue.  A
     discussion of the relevant points will be in the next version of
     OSI-DS 12.


     Steve Hardcastle-Kille (s.kille@cs.ucl.ac.uk)

FOX -- FIELD OPERATIONAL X.500 PROJECT
--------------------------------------

     The FOX project is a DARPA and NSF sponsored effort to provide a
     basis for operational X.500 deployment in the NREN/Internet.  This
     work is being carried out at Merit, NSYERNet/PSI, SRI and ISI.  ISI
     is the main contractor and responsible for project oversight.

     ISI
     ---

        ISI is in the process of installing a new DSA. The new DSA, as
        yet unnamed, will run over isode 7.0 and will incorporate the
        NADF naming scheme. The new DSA is being designed as a
        replacement for "Incan Speckled Iguana," ISI's current level-1
        DSA. "Incan Speckled Iguana" runs over isode 6.0 and the process
        of converting the old EDBs to the new format has been discovered
        to be problematic.

        Tom Tignor (tpt2@isi.edu)

     PSI
     ---

        A decision was made to rename the existing "x5ftp" application
        to "x5rfc", to more accurately reflect its function. A new
        application, called "x5ftp", that retrieves files from anonymous
        ftp archives was written and completed.



Cooper                                                         [Page 53]

Internet Monthly Report                                    November 1991


        The document describing the schema underlying the (new) "x5ftp"
        application was submitted to the OSI-DS group for consideration.

        Wengyik Yeong (yeongw@psi.com)

     SRI
     ----

        The "Northern Swift Fox" and "San Joaquin Kit Fox" which support
        WHOIS data and SRI staff data respectively, were upgraded to run
        ISODE and QUIPU 7.0.

        SRI pursued obtaining copies of WHOIS data from the current DDN
        NIC contractor (GSI/Network Solutions) in order to keep the
        X.500 WHOIS data up to date.  A fax containing proposed options
        for the format of the dumps and/or incremental updates of the
        WHOIS data was sent to Scott Williamson of Network Solutions as
        a basis for discussion.  Scott Williamson and Ruth Lang met
        while at IETF to continue these discussions.  Early agreements
        point toward the use of an Ingres-independent ASCII format for
        transmission of this information.  According to Network
        Solutions' estimates, they may be able to make WHOIS data
        available to FOX in early 1992.

        SRI initiated the purchase of an additional memory board for the
        Sun 4/390 that supports the WHOIS QUIPU DSA.  The addition of
        memory in this workstation will result in a decrease in the time
        it takes to load the WHOIS data which now is prohibitively high.

        SRI reviewed the schema employed to support WHOIS data in X.500
        and identified attributes that were not being used by the
        X5WHOIS program.  Although the additional attributes added value
        to the objects themselves, we decided in the short term to
        eliminate them from the data set loaded into QUIPU in order to
        reduce the total size of the data set loaded.  As an additional
        means for reducing the effective WHOIS data size, we took
        advantage of the inherited attributes available in QUIPU 7.0 and
        represented access control lists in this manner.  In order to
        preserve formatting (e.g., tabs) available in WHOIS Comments
        field, the use of the "info" attribute (caseIgnoreStringSyntax)
        in WHOIS objects was replaced by a new attribute "comments"
        (CaseIgnoreIA5StringSyntax).

        Enhancements were made to X5WHOIS to implement time/size search
        limits, mailbox searches based on availability of fast suffix
        matching in QUIPU 7.0, and search for organizationName in
        addition to commonName to better match old WHOIS behavior.




Cooper                                                         [Page 54]

Internet Monthly Report                                    November 1991


        The NIST X.500 implementation, Custos, was studied in
        preparation for replacing its use of the UNIX file system as a
        pseudo-relational database with a commercial relational database
        (Sybase).  Interaction with the NIST development team clarified
        that changes being made to produce the next release of Custos
        will not impact SRI's work based on release 0.1.1.

        The following changes were made to the DISI Internet-Draft, "A
        Catalog of Available X.500 Implementations" and are reflected in
        the current Internet-Draft.  To the document itself, six
        additional and 16 updated implementation descriptions were
        added, the keyword cross reference section was revised, and a
        separate disclaimer section was created.  To the Implementation
        Descriptions, a Pilot Connectivity section was added, the
        Completeness section was enhanced to make a statement with
        respect to Section 9 of X.519, and a Last Modified section was
        added.  A request to progress this document to FYI status has
        been placed with the Chair of the User Services Working Group.

        We received and responded to 3 queries regarding the
        availability of "A Catalog of Available X.500 Implementations"
        (Internet-Draft document draft-ietf-disi-catalog-01.txt).

        Ruth Lang attended the 22nd IETF meeting held in Santa Fe, New
        Mexico.

        Ruth Lang (rlang@nisc.sri.com)

PARADISE
--------

     In the last month three new countries joined the pilot.

     In JAPAN, the WIDE project in the University of Keio is running the
     master DSA for c=JP. There are 13 QUIPU DSAs at present working in
     the country - eight of which were registered in the pilot at the
     time of writing. These include AIC Systems Laboratories, Fujitsu
     Laboratories Ltd, Hitachi Software Engineering Co., Kyoto
     University, Sony Computer Science Laboratory Inc., and the SOUM
     Corporation. One of the more important tasks of the WIDE project is
     the handling of the Japanese character set in X.500. Currently,
     they use T.61 with ISO 2022, and after making a simple modification
     of QUIPU, are designing attributes in Japanese.

     PORTUGAL's X.500 Directory pilot finally took off at the University
     of Minho; they hope to include several more University sites before
     summer 1992.




Cooper                                                         [Page 55]

Internet Monthly Report                                    November 1991


     The Victoria University of Wellington registered its QUIPU DSA with
     Giant Tortoise and is now mastering entries for NEW ZEALAND.
     Besides the University, the Ministry of Research, Science and
     Technology is the only other entry under c=NZ at the moment.

     Also in November, in ITALY, the c=IT node moved from Systems
     Wizards, the software consultancy based in Ivrea and running its
     own implementation DirWiz, to CNUCE in Pisa. CNUCE are part of the
     CNR (Consiglio Nazionale di Ricerca) and are planning to run a
     QUIPU-based directory service on behalf of GARR, the Italian
     Research and Academic network. At present the Italian DIT, in
     addition to CNR, shows INFN and the University of Pisa. CNUCE are
     also running the top level Internet DNS and it is their intention
     to experiment using X.500 to store domain information.

     The PARADISE project set up the domain l=Europe, generating both
     interest and brickbats. The domain is intended to cater for
     genuinely pan-European "supranational" activities, and its
     "naturalness" and justification for existence will be reviewed
     before the end of the project (December 1992). At present there are
     three entries:

     (1)     the COSINE project, which though its management unit
             (the CPMU) arebased in Amsterdam, is effectively a
             pan-European association of national governmental and
             policy group representatives, as well as national IXI,
             MHS and X.500 managers and contact points;

     (2)     projects under the CEC ESPRIT (European Strategic
             Programme for Research in Information Technology) which
             have pan-European consortia;

     (3)     the European Space Agency (ESA) have plans to run an
             experimental pilot before concluding whether to scale
             up to a full operational directory service across the
             whole of the ESA network.

     The last week of November saw the ESPRIT Conference Week in
     Brussels in which PARADISE demonstrated the Directory on a SUN
     SPARCstation. A video camcorder was mounted on top of the box, and
     using a SUN Videopics card, delegates were framed, interrogated and
     listed in the Directory. This proved an effective way of attracting
     attention - the results can be seen under:

             l=europe;o=cosine;ou=ecw

     though pictures may not be in place until mid-December. The PROOF
     project which also involves University College London demonstrated



Cooper                                                         [Page 56]

Internet Monthly Report                                    November 1991


     the Directory over a primary rate ISDN line which often performed
     more successfully than the local X.25 switch used by PARADISE.

     The second PARADISE International Report was published in the last
     week of November and is now available in hard copy form from:

             helpdesk@paradise.ulcc.ac.uk

     It has the same style as the last report but also includes a DUA
     Survey carried out by Colin Robbins and Paul Barker. The electronic
     version should be available soon.

     David Goodman (d.goodman@cs.ucl.ac.uk)
     PARADISE Project Manager

PSI DARPA/NNT X.500 Project
---------------------------

     The manager of the c=US arc in the global DIT participated in
     cleaning up the root of the DIT. To this end, the l=North America
     node was deleted from the DIT as per the agreements reached in the
     last meeting of the IETF OSI-DS group. In addition, the manager of
     the c=US arc, in cooperation with the managers of other national
     arcs worked to ensure consistent replication of national entries
     among top-level DSAs in order to enhance the operational stability
     of various Directory pilots.

     A fix to the "fred" program was installed to circumvent an
     assumption in the search algorithm used by "fred". The fix will be
     returned to the maintainers of the quipu software once it is
     determined that the problem the fix is supposed to resolve no
     longer exists.

     In preparation for participation in the NADF Experimental Directory
     pilot, some discussions were held with other prospective
     participants to coordinate various details involved in the setup of
     the pilot.

     Wengyik Yeong (yeongw@psi.com)


PSI WHITE PAGES PILOT PROJECT
-----------------------------

     The transition of the PSI White Pages Pilot Project to the NADF
     naming scheme continues.

     New organizations added to the pilot this past month are:



Cooper                                                         [Page 57]

Internet Monthly Report                                    November 1991


             University of Oregon

     Wengyik Yeong (yeongw@psi.com)

Registration Authority Committee (ANSI USA RAC)
-----------------------------------------------

     INTRODUCTION

     Although this report may seem to point out many complicated issues
     that remain to be resolved, the good news is that these issues are
     finally on the surface and may be expected to be solved in the near
     future, now that they are surfaced.

     ANSI USA RAC met on November 21, 1992 at ANSI in New York City to
     consider how ANSI will coordinate its registration authority work
     with the US Dept of State, CCITT National Committee, Study Group D,
     which now has a joint interest in these activities for c=US.  (SG-
     D, MHS-MD will meet on Dec 5-6 at the US Dept of State, and will
     meet jointly with ANSI USA RAC on Dec 6.)

     The joint ANSI/SG-D(MHS-MD) interest stems from two sources:

     First, MHS Management Domain naming (ADMD/PRMD) is primarily a
     CCITT responsibility, since X.400(84) was a CCITT-only
     Recommendation.  ISO was not involved with X.400(84) though it has
     since become involved for X.400(88) with ISO 10021 (MOTIS).  So,
     both CCITT and ISO Member Bodies in c=us must now involve
     themselves in resolving any naming issues related to both X.400 and
     X.500.

     Second, ISO/CCITT have jointly created a new Alpha-Numeric "Name
     and OID" tree { joint-iso-ccitt(2) country(16) us(840 } for c=US in
     a revision of ISO 9834-1, which brings Alpha-Numeric Name and OID
     registration under joint responsibility of the ISO/CCITT Member
     bodies in each country, including c=US.  The number 16 has recently
     been assigned to the "country" element of this new joint-iso-ccitt
     OID tree.

     The member bodies for c=US are ANSI and the US Dept of State.

     An additional complication in the present ANSI/MHS-MD situation is
     that ANSI has already started to register stuff (standards,
     regions, and organizations) in the original ISO Alpha-numeric name
     tree { iso(1) member-body(2) us(840) }, and now must decide exactly
     how to "move" to the new tree, after agreement is made with the US
     Dept of State on administration of the { 2 16 840 } tree.




Cooper                                                         [Page 58]

Internet Monthly Report                                    November 1991


     At the USA RAC meeting, it was generally agreed that whatever
     happens, all prior registered names, and all newly registered
     names, in either arc, must be regarded as being in a single pool of
     names, with no names or numbers in either arc to be registered to
     different registrants!  Whether existing registrations in { 1 2 840
     } should or should not be copied into and also registered in { 2 16
     840 } is for further study,

     A BRIEF DIGRESSION

     It is my very strong personal position that having multiple OID
     values for any registered object is a very bad practice, and I hold
     that existing registered numbers should not be given a second
     registration in the new arc unless the registrant specifically
     applies (with payment of a new fee) for a new registration, and
     then the applicant must show an understanding of the dangerous
     issues of assignment of multiple OID values to the same objects
     before the old OID value is assigned in the new arc { 2 16 840 }.
     Presumably this new registration would be given the same numeric
     value in { 2 16 840 } as the old value in { 1 2 840 }, since (by
     policy) any numeric value assigned to anyone in {1 2 840 } should
     never be also assigned to anyone else in { 1 16 840 }.

     I will not go further into the downside of assigning multiple OID
     values to the same object, other than to note that all implementors
     must then account for all the alternative possible values in their
     implementation code.  This can only lead to interoperability
     problems.  And it is pointless.

     ANSI MHS-MD COORDINATION ISSUES

     The largest part of the USA RAC meeting effort was applied to
     development of an "ANSI Negotiating Position" for use in a joint
     meeting with MHS-MD to be held at the US Dept of State in the
     morning of Dec 6.  A reasonable set of alternative coordination
     arrangements was developed, all of which strive to obtain a single
     registration agent for all OSI names and identifiers in c=US,
     whether there might be more than one registry involved or not.

     It should be noted that the current ANSI registry provides for
     perpetual care of all registered names and numbers without any
     exceptions.  It is allowed for any name or identifier registration
     to be transferred to a new owner, but once a numeric identifier is
     assigned, it cannot be retired and then later reassigned.  However,
     it is possible for an alpha name to be retired (only by an action
     of its owner), and become available for reassignment to a new
     applicant.




Cooper                                                         [Page 59]

Internet Monthly Report                                    November 1991


     The logic of this is that numeric OID values may be assigned to
     subordinate objects and subtrees by an any OID owner, and all these
     subordinate OID assignments are perpetual by the rules of ISO
     9834-1.  Any reassignment would lead to assignment of the same OID
     to new objects, without any way to revoke the earlier assignment of
     the same value to a different object.

     The situation for ALPHA names is not quite the same, in particular
     because the names are not used for OID formation in the same way.
     It helps to think in terms of civil naming systems where alpha
     names are not assigned for perpetuity.  X.500 directory, which is
     dependent on civil naming, must be able to accommodate rollover of
     name assignment.

     RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN the OLD and NEW ARCS

             {             iso(1) member-body(2) us(840) } and
             { joint-iso-ccitt(2)    country(16) us(840) }

     First these are two totally separate name and number spaces.  Any
     coordination between them is arbitrary, and "out of band", if I may
     use this term here to signify that the involved parties must deal
     with any coordination through procedures that are entirely outside
     the ISO/CCITT 9834-1 rules of administration of either arc.

     Aside from the general idea that any number or name assigned in
     either arc must be either reserved for (or also assigned to) the
     same object (organization or entity) in the other arc, there is an
     additional complication to be considered.

     ISO 9834-1 (original and new versions) defined the formation of a
     Distinguished Name (DN) as having the country-name (e.g., c=US) as
     the first level under the "root".  This is familiar to all who deal
     with the idea of a "top level DSA".  This is different from the way
     an OID is formed in these same trees, by using the prefix { 1 2 }
     or {2 16 }.

     Therefore, when forming a Distinguished Name (DN) from either tree,
     { iso member-body } or { joint-iso-ccitt country }, the first
     element that is visible is { country-name } (e.g., c=US, c=GB,
     etc).  Thus, it is impossible to know whether a name was registered
     under one or the other or both trees.  ISO 9834-1 makes a point of
     having defined them to overlay each other when used in X.500
     Distinguised Names.

     SO, IT IS IMPERATIVE that in c=US (and in any other country as
     well), that any alpha-numeric names registered under the { 1 2 }
     arc be mapped exactly the same way under the { 2 16 } arc, else



Cooper                                                         [Page 60]

Internet Monthly Report                                    November 1991


     there might be two entities assigned to the same DN.  Therefore, it
     is strongly recommended (by me) that every country be very careful
     about coordination between the two arcs.

     If possible, I suggest that if you have not yet begun to assign
     names and numbers under { iso(1) member-body(2) }, that you now
     deprecate such registrations and start your registration processes
     using only { joint-iso-ccitt(2) country(16) }.

     NEXT STEPS IN C=US COORDINATION EFFORTS

     The next step is to hold a joint meeting on Dec 6, 1991 between
     ANSI USA RAC (USA Registration Authority Committee) and MHS-MD (US
     Dept of State, CCITT National Committee, Study Group D, MHS
     Management Domain subcommittee).

     I am not entirely clear on what happens after USA RAC and MHS-MD
     come to agreement, but I expect that ANSI USA RAC must submit the
     joint recommendation to the ANSI ISSB for ratification, while MHS-
     MD must submit the joint recommendation to SG-D, which must pass it
     along to the CCITT National Committee, which must pass it along to
     the US Dept of State for ratification.  I have no idea how long
     this might take.

     WHAT TO DO IN THE MEANTIME

     What I (STRONGLY) suggest is that the IETF-OSI-DS simply adopt the
     NADF Naming Scheme (RFC1255, NADF175) for c=US and get on with the
     piloting efforts. The NADF175 c=US scheme enables virtually
     everyone to use their already assigned civil name for DN formation.
     Only a very few organizations cannot use their commonly preferred
     names (where they have not yet managed to register these names with
     some civil authority).  If this is important, then they should
     simply find a way to register their desired names with their
     desired civil naming authorities.  ANSI is one possible
     registration authority if you must have a name with "national
     standing registration".

     I do want to point out however, that such a national standing name
     is not required, unless you have a strong desire for what I call a
     National Vanity Name.  This is like getting Vanity License Plates.

     WHAT ABOUT MHS-MD NAMES?

     I assume you are all curious about this topic, but I note that this
     report is for the OSI-DS mailing list, which is focused on X.500
     naming issues.  None-the-less, here is a brief discussion of some
     possibilities that I have imagined.  I do not want to preempt the



Cooper                                                         [Page 61]

Internet Monthly Report                                    November 1991


     upcoming joint meeting.

     The issues center on differences between the basic semantics of
     X.500 RDN use of names and X.400 ORAddress use of names.  X.500 is
     concerned with unique and unambiguous identification of objects,
     wherever they may be and whatever they may be.  Conceptually, every
     thinkable entity can be entered in an X.500 DIT.  On the other
     hand, X.400 is concerned only with naming Administration and
     Private Management Domains (ADMD and PRMD) for use in Addresses of
     recipients and for use in the process of routing mail from an
     originator to a recipient.

     ISO 9834-1 is concerned only with supplying a means for unambiguous
     identification of objects, while X.400 is additionally concerned
     with issues of service provider behavior, and concerned with some
     aspects of enforcement of some rules (to be determined).

     9834-1 is thus oriented to perpetual registration, while X.400 is
     concerned with time limited registration and with periodic renewal
     requirements.  This leads to a value-conflict over the registration
     fees to be charged (annual vs one-time), and whether the registrar
     cares about any aspect of the intended use of the name (none vs
     some).

     The economics of each are very different (perpetual care cemetery
     lots vs annual "license" renewal).  ANSI fees are high one-time
     charges, while ADMD and PRMD operators want lower fees, and will
     accept annual renewal requirements.

     MHS-MD (and the US Dept of State) might see an MHS-MD name
     registration as implying an agreement by the applicant to abide by
     certain rules (to be voluntarily agreed upon by the service
     providers), which serve to fulfill certain ITU Treaty obligations
     which are the responsibility of the US Dept of State.  I say
     "might" here because MHS-MD and the US Dept of State have not yet
     decided exactly what they think about this issue of service
     provider behavior.

     Therefore, MHS-MD registration takes on very different
     characteristics from the current ANSI registration service.  The
     purposes and the behaviors of each registry appear to have serious
     fundamental differences in their requirements, so the decisions are
     going to require some very careful thought.

     NEXT ANSI USA RAC MEETING

     The next meeting of USA RAC will be held in NYC on Feb 19, 1992.




Cooper                                                         [Page 62]

Internet Monthly Report                                    November 1991


     Repectfully submitted by Einar Stefferud (Member of USA RAC and
     MHS-MD)

     Einar Stefferud (stef@ics.uci.edu)

SG-D MHS-MD
-----------


     Some information on SG-D, MHS-MD activities is included in Einar
     Stefferud's ANSI USA RAC report above.

     -Tom Tignor (tpt2@isi.edu)
      DS Report Coordinator





































Cooper                                                         [Page 63]

Internet Monthly Report                                    November 1991


CALENDAR OF EVENTS
------------------

Readers are requested to send in dates of events that are appropriate
for this calendar section.

     1991 CALENDAR

     Dec 2-5         4TH INT. WORKSHOP ON PETRI NETS AND
                     PERFORMANCE MODELS, Melbourne, Australia
                     Jonathan Billington, Telecom Austrl.
                     (j.billington @ trl.oz.au)
     Dec 2-5         GLOBECOM'91, See IEEE Publications. Phoenix, AZ
     Dec 9-13        OIW, NIST, Gaithersburg, MD


     1992 CALENDAR

     Jan 13-21       ANSI X3T5
     Jan 19          T1S1, Call Control and Signaling (ISDN,
                     Frame Relay, Broadband ATM)
     Jan 20-22       RIPE, Amsterdam
     Jan 28-30       ANSI X3S3.3, Tucson, AZ
     Feb 9           T1E1, Physical Layer Interfaces (ISDN, T1,
                     Broadband, etc.) Fish Camp, CA  Verilink
     Feb 19-20       RARE WG1, Location unknown
     Feb 20-21       RARE Manager Mtg, Location unknown
     Mar 2           T1S1, Call Control and Signaling (ISDN, Frame
                     Relay, Broadband ATM)
     Mar 2-6         ANSI X3T5
     Mar 2-6         CAIA '92  8th IEEE Conference on AI Application
     Mar 3-5         ACM CSC, Kansas City, MO
     Mar 9-13        IEEE802 Plenary, Irvine, CA
     Mar 9-13        OIW, NIST, Gaithersburg, MD
     Mar 16-19       Info Netwrk&DataComm, Espoo, FI
                     Espoo, Helsinki, Finland; Contact: IFIP-TC6
     <Spring>        IETF, San Diego, CA
                     Megan Davies (mdavies@nri.reston.va.us)
     Mar 18-20       Computers, Freedom & Privacy II,
                     Grand Hyatt Hotel, Washington, DC
     Mar 23          T1M1, Management and Maintenance (ISDN,
                     Broadband, Frame Relay, etc.), Raleigh, NC,
                     Fujitsu
     Mar 25-27       National Net 92, Washington DC
                     Elizabeth Barnhart (barnhart@educom.edu)
     Apr 6-16        CCITT SG VII    Geneva, Switzerland
     Apr 21-23       ANSI X3S3.3, Mountaon View, Ca.
     May 4-6         ANSI X3T5



Cooper                                                         [Page 64]

Internet Monthly Report                                    November 1991


     May 4-8         DECUS '92, Atlanta, GA
     May 4-8         IEEE INFOCOM'92, See IEEE Pub., Florence
     May 11          T1E1,  Physical Layer Interfaces (ISDN, T1,
                     Broadband, etc.)
                     Williamsburg, VA, Bell Atlantic
     May 12-14       Joint Network Conference 3, Innsbruck, Austria
                     (this is the RARE Networkshop - renamed)
     May 13-15       IFIP International Workshop on Protocols for
                     High Speed Networks, Stockholm, Sweden
                     Contact:  <PfHSN92@sics.se>
     May 18-25       INTEROP92, Washington, D.C.
                     Dan Lynch (dlynch@interop.com)
     May 19-29       ISO/IEC JTC 1/SC 21, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada
     May 27-29       IFIP WG 6.5 Int'l Conference, Vancouver, Canada
     May ??-??       Third IFIP International Workshop on
                     Protocols for High-Speed Networks, Stockholm
                     Per Gunningberg, per@sics.se
                     Bjorn Pehrson, bjorn@sics.se
                     Stephen Pink, steve@sics.se
     Jun 8           T1M1, Management and Maintenance (ISDN,
                     Broadband, Frame Relay, etc.)
                     Minneapolis, MN, ADC TElecom
     Jun 8-12        OIW, NIST, Gaithersburg, MD
     Jun 10-11       RARE WG1, tentative-Location unknown
     Jun 11-12       RARE COSINE MHS MGR, tentative-Location unknown
     Jun 14-17       ICC-SUPERCOMM'92, Chicago, IL
     Jun 15-19       INET92, Kobe, Japan
                     Jun Murai (jun@wide.ad.jp), KEIO University
                     Elizabeth Barnhart (barnhart@educom.edu)
                     "North America Contact"
     Jun 16-18       ANSI X3S3.3, Minneapolos, MN
     Jun 22-25       PSTV-XII, Orlando
                     Umit Uyar (umit@honet5.att.com)
                     Jerry Linn or Holmdel, NIST
                     linnrj@ECF.NCSL.NIST.GOV
     Jun 14-17       ICC-SUPERCOMM'92, Chicago, See IEEE Publ..
     Jul 6-10        IEEE802 Plenary, Bloomington, MN
     Jul 13-17       ANSI X3T5
     Jul 13-24       ISO/IEC JTC1/SC6, San Diego, CA
     Aug 2           T1S1, Call Control and Signaling (ISDN,
                     Frame Relay, Broadband ATM)
     Aug 16          T1S1, Call Control and Signaling (ISDN,
                     Frame Relay, Broadband ATM)
     Aug 17-20       SIGCOMM, Baltimore, MD
                     Deepinder Sidhu, UMBC
     Sep 7-11        IFIP World Congress
                     Madrid, Spain;  Contact: IFIP
     Sep 14-18       ANSI X3T5



Cooper                                                         [Page 65]

Internet Monthly Report                                    November 1991


     Sep 21-25       OIW, NIST, Gaithersburg, MD
     Sep 22-24       ANSI X3S3.3, Boston, MA
     Oct 5-8         FORTE'92, Lannion
                     Roland Groz (groz@lannion.cnet.fr)
                     Michel Diaz (diaz@droopy.laas.fr)
     Oct 26-30       INTEROP92, San Francisco
                     Dan Lynch (dlynch@interop.com)
     Nov 9-13        ANSI X3T5
     Dec             ANSI X3S3.3, Boulder, CO
     Dec 7-11        DECUS '92, Las Vegas, NV
     Dec 14-18       OIW, NIST, Gaithersburg, MD


1993 CALENDAR

     Mar 8-12        INTEROP93, Wasington, D.C.
                     Dan Lynch (dlynch@interop.com)
     Mar 8-12        OIW, NIST, Gaithersburg, MD
     May 23-26       ICC'92, Geneva, Switzerland
     May-Jun         PSTV-XIII, University of Liege.
                     Contact: Andre Danthine,
     May 23-26       ICC'93, Geneva, See IEEE Publications.
     Jun 7-11        OIW, NIST, Gaithersburg, MD
     Aug             INET93,  San Francisco Bay Area
     Aug             SIGCOMM, San Francisco
     Sep 13-17       OIW, NIST, Gaithersburg, MD
     Sep 20-31       ISO/IEC JTC1/SC6, Seoul, Korea.
     Oct 12-14       Conference on Network Information Processing,
                     Sofia, Bulgaria;  Contact: IFIP-TC6
     Oct 25-29       INTEROP93, San Francisco
                     Dan Lynch (dlynch@interop.com)
     Nov 9-13        IEEE802 Plenary, LaJolla, CA
     Dec 6-10        OIW, NIST, Gaithersburg, MD

     1994 CALENDAR

     Apr 18-22       INTEROP94, Washington, D.C.
                     Dan Lynch (dlynch@interop.com)

     Aug 29-Sep 2    IFIP World Congress
                     Hamburg, Germany; Contact: IFIP

     Sep 12-16       INTEROP94, San Francisco
                     Dan Lynch (dlynch@interop.com)

     1995 EVENTS

     Sep 18-22       INTEROP95, San Francisco, CA



Cooper                                                         [Page 66]

Internet Monthly Report                                    November 1991


                     Dan Lynch (dlynch@interop.com)

-------------------------------

Note:

       T1E1: Physical Layer Interfaces (ISDN, T1, Broadband, etc.,)
       TiMi:  Management and Maintenance (ISDN, Broadband, Frame
              Relay, etc.)










































Cooper                                                         [Page 67]
